Clenched, curled, the surgeon's fingers struggle to knot his tie. At last, hegrips the loop and hastily feeds the burgundy tip through with his small, pudgyfingers."It's a kind of torture," says Juan Romagoza Arce, with a wry, quiet laugh as heprepares for another hectic day at his Northwest Washington health clinic.Buttons are even worse. "It's hard to feel them here," the doctor says, tappingthe tip of his index finger on his thumb.There is a reason why the fingers that once wove sutures now strain to knot atie. Why the doctor who once performed emergency surgery now winces at the sightof blood. Why the executive director of La Clinica del Pueblo, a health careoasis for Washington's Hispanic community, doesn't treat patients.More than two decades have passed since Romagoza fled El Salvador, yet it stillisn't easy for him to talk about the torture he endured or the damage it did.For a long time, the words were too painful, the memories too searing, thehealing too precarious. Then he was asked to tell his story publicly, in anAmerican courtroom, as part of what many people considered a quixotic legaleffort to hold his torturers accountable for what they'd done to him. And whatthey'd done to El Salvador.Romagoza rubs his left arm, which bears a faint brown bullet scar, the onlyvisible mark his tormentors left. "I love clinical work, I love surgery, but itis impossible for me," he says, peering down his glasses. He takes out a yellowlegal pad and pencil."Let me show you," he says in his choppy English. "When they broke this bone . .." He sketches a bent arm and pencils in the nerves, a twisted composition ofmatted lines. When the nerves are cut, he explains, "there's less tension. Thetissue is pulled" like a spring. He touches his arm again."My surgery isn't as precise as it was in the past, but I think that mylimitation is more emotional, psychological. It is more related to . . ." Hepauses thoughtfully. "Impotence. Fear. Stress."They stripped me of my gift."Romagoza wasn't surprised to learn "they" were here. By the time El Salvador'scivil war finally ended in 1992, many members of the military elite -- thepeople who presided over the torture and murder of thousands of guerrillas andsuspected leftist sympathizers -- had chosen the same haven he had: the UnitedStates. Two of the military officers who ruled El Salvador during Romagoza'sordeal -- Gen. Jose Guillermo Garcia and future general Carlos Eugenio VidesCasanova -- had retired to Florida, joining their children who were alreadyliving there. That made sense, Romagoza says, given their close ties to U.S.officials throughout the 1980s."Where else are they supposed to live?" asks Romagoza, who turns 52 this weekand is now a U.S. citizen. "In El Salvador? No. In another Central Americacountry? No. They had an open door to come here."In fact, Florida, California and a handful of other states are home to hundredsof accused war criminals and torturers from all over Latin America, according toAmnesty International, a human rights group. Other suspected human rightsabusers have made their way to the United States from Cambodia, China,Indonesia, Iraq, Sierra Leone, Vietnam, Somalia, Eastern Europe and Afghanistan,sometimes settling in the same communities as their victims. (Torture treatmentcenters and refugee groups claim there are roughly 500,000 torture survivorsnationwide, with an estimated 40,000 in the Washington area.) Vides Casanova andGarcia received U.S. visas in 1989 after retiring from the military; Garcia wasgranted political asylum on the grounds that he and his children had beenthreatened during the war. Vides Casanova was allowed to enter the countrydespite a 1983 report to the State Department that he was likely "aware of, andfor a time acquiesced in, the coverup" of the murders of four Americanchurchwomen.It was through the deaths of the churchwomen that Romagoza came to confront hispast.Romagoza knew, of course, about the three nuns and the Catholic lay worker whohad distributed food and health supplies to local campesinos, or peasants. Onthe evening of December 2, 1980, they were stopped by the National Guard outsideSan Salvador, the country's capital. They were raped and killed, their bodiesdumped into a shallow grave.The women had been dead for 18 years when Romagoza got a phone call from an oldfriend, Shawn Roberts, the lawyer who had helped him win permanent residency inthe United States. Roberts, who worked for the Center for Justice andAccountability, in San Francisco, wanted Romagoza to join a civil lawsuit beingbrought by the families of the dead churchwomen against Garcia and VidesCasanova.Romagoza initially agreed to be part of any legal effort to take on thegenerals, then began having second thoughts. He lay awake in his small NorthwestWashington rowhouse, which he shares with a niece studying at Howard University,and agonized over what to do.He felt safe there, in that house with its Central American pottery and itssmall garden of radishes, corn and peppers that reminded him of the one at hisfamily's home in El Salvador. On summer weekends, he'd doze in a hammock in theback yard, savoring the sun and the chance to sleep. But his sense of securityin the United States did not extend to his mother, his siblings and his in-lawsin El Salvador, where the military continued to wield tremendous power. Hisfamily had already warned him not to get involved.Yet he felt a sense of obligation -- to the churchwomen, who'd given their livesfor the Salvadoran people, and to all the others who had suffered at themilitary's hands. If he didn't have the courage to confront the generals, whowould?He stuck with the case, which was eventually split into two separate lawsuits,one for the churchwomen, the other for Salvadoran torture victims. Two othervictims had signed on with Romagoza: Carlos Mauricio, an agriculture professorwho'd been beaten with a rubber-covered metal bar, and Neris Gonzalez, a motherof two who was abducted when she was pregnant (and lost her unborn child afterbeing tortured). None of the torture victims knew how much of a role they'd playin the legal drama about to unfold. The churchwomen's case was first, and theirlawyers had compiled a mountain of evidence.The families didn't accuse the generals of actually committing the murders;instead, they charged that torture and murder were endemic to their militaryleadership. They also cited the United Nations Truth Commission report on ElSalvador that concluded the generals impeded the investigation of the murders.The trial, held in West Palm Beach, Fla., in the fall of 2000, lasted a monthand ended with exoneration for the generals. The jury acquitted both men of"command responsibility," and found them individually not responsible for thechurchwomen's murder. But any celebration by the generals was quickly chilled bythe prospect of a second trial. And this time the generals would be face to facewith their accusers.The letters were scary, the calls even more so. Remember that you will return toEl Salvador someday, the first letter warned Romagoza. Remember you have familyin El Salvador. Later, anonymous callers delivered an even more chillingmessage: If you weren't happy with your rape in El Salvador, we will rape youhere. We will find you in the street. We know where you live.In El Salvador, Romagoza's mother was so afraid for her safety that she stoppedvisiting church in the morning. By the time testimony got underway in U.S.District Court in West Palm Beach on June 24, 2002, Romagoza had sufferedthrough months of anxiety and sleeplessness."Plaintiffs may call your first witness."Romagoza made his way to the stand, his throat tight and his face strained. Hepulled the microphone toward his mouth. Jose Guillermo Garcia, 68, and CarlosEugenio Vides Casanova, 64, once two of the most powerful men in El Salvador,sat directly in front of him. Garcia was defense minister from 1979 to 1983,when he was succeeded by Vides Casanova, who'd been head of the National Guard.One of Romagoza's lawyers, James Green, asked about his background, his medicaltraining, his faith.Then, "Dr. Romagoza, were you politically involved as a student or medicalstudent?"No."Were you ever a guerrilla?""Never.""Directing your attention to December 12, 1980, what were you doing?"He glanced at the generals, then explained he was part of a group that organizedhealth campaigns in northern El Salvador, where peasants badly needed medicalhelp. They went to provinces like Chalatenango, in one of the zonas rojas, or"red zones" -- areas where the fighting was the most intense, and where themilitary exercised martial law.December 12 was the feast day of the Virgin of Guadalupe, and local people wouldbe attending Mass. In the hope that people already gathered would be more likelyto take advantage of medical care, six health workers -- doctors, nurses,medical students -- traveled to the town of Santa Anita. It was only 10 daysafter the murder of the churchwomen."Were you carrying a gun?""Never.""Was anyone with you carrying a gun?"No.Romagoza's group, he testified, attended Mass, then got to work, providingmedical exams, inoculations, minor surgery. Soon a line snaked alongside thechurch in the town square."What happened then?"A truck carrying National Guardsmen arrived. Romagoza assured the crowd theguardsmen would leave. "We were trying to calm them down, saying, You know, theywill be here, but they will leave. But it wasn't that way . . ."The guardsmen opened fire, emptying their machine guns into the crowd.People scattered, but the wounded were pinned down. Romagoza touched hisforehead and felt blood pouring from his head. He looked down and saw his bootripped open by shrapnel, now lodged in his foot.A guardsman walked over to him and pressed the barrel of his gun againstRomagoza's temple. He heard a click! And again, click-click!The safety was on.The guardsman kicked Romagoza in the chest, then inspected his bag, with knives,forceps and needles. The equipment and his boots -- hiking shoes of the sortworn by Salvadoran Eagle Scouts -- apparently made them suspect Romagoza was aguerrilla commander. They took him, first by truck, and then by helicopter, to agarrison at El Paraiso, Spanish for "paradise.""All they said was they were going to take me in, and I was about to go throughsome of the most difficult days of my life," Romagoza said. "I asked them tokill me right then, since I knew what was going to happen to me."A child of middle-class parents, Romagoza grew up in Usulutan, a farmingcommunity in southeastern El Salvador sandwiched between mountains and a slopingvolcano. His father was a sports coach and physical education teacher. Thefamily lived in a two-story Spanish colonial house, with thick walls thatwithstood earthquakes while others near it crumbled.Romagoza's parents wanted him to become a priest, and sent him to seminary whenhe was 12. But Romagoza had a different dream: medicine, an interest fueled byseeing his grandfather die of a heart attack at 58 and watching childhoodfriends die of malnutrition and parasitic diseases.Romagoza wanted to be a surgeon, but such ambitions seemed out of reach. He wasone of eight children, and medical school was costly. But Romagoza had twouncles in the military, both colonels, who had connections. One of them, Lt.Col. Manuel Rafael Arce Blandon, was once the country's economics minister, andhe helped his nephew get a medical scholarship.In 1970 at age 19, Romagoza enrolled at the University of El Salvador in SanSalvador, where he eventually hoped to specialize in cardiac surgery. Instead hefound himself caught up in El Salvador's increasing unrest. A guerrilla movementwas growing, inspired by the success of Nicaragua's Sandinistas, and the statewas intent on crushing it. The government's hard-liners were supported by theUnited States, still fighting the Cold War and determined to preventrevolutionary, Cuban-style socialism from spreading across Central America. TheUnited States provided the Salvadoran government with arms, military trainingand millions of dollars in aid.By the late 1970s, El Salvador -- a country roughly the size of Massachusetts,with just 5 million people -- was on the brink of civil war. Though he hadn'tyet finished medical school (and would not until 1994), Romagoza had alreadybegun to perform surgery in the field."People didn't go to the hospital," he explains. "They died in the streets, theydied in the church, they died in the school . . . I did a lot of surgery at thattime."The woman he would eventually marry, Laura Maria Melindas, was treating peoplecaught in the crossfire, too. She was a year behind him in medical school andboth were inspired by El Salvador's archbishop, Oscar Romero, who became a heroto millions in Latin America by openly challenging El Salvador's ruling class.Before he was silenced by an assassin's bullet on March 24, 1980, Romero helpedestablish groups that promoted land reform and workers' rights. He also calledon medical students to treat the country's rural poor, who were being swept intoa brutal, chaotic conflict. Romagoza and Melindas heeded the call, though it wasincreasingly dangerous to do so.At the university's clinic, people began showing up with burns, lesions andtrack marks from electric shock instruments. Some had been raped with metalinstruments, others beaten over and over again. Romagoza says he treated about30 torture victims in 1979 and 1980. Their physical scars and bruises werealways accompanied by "psychosomatic problems" and "much emotional trouble.""There was a standard among them all," Romagoza says, "which was a terrible fearof everything."At El Paraiso, Romagoza was stripped to his underwear, strapped to a cementtable and blindfolded."Suddenly these voices appeared, and they started questioning me, and eachquestion was accompanied by a blow," Romagoza testified. "When they didn'treceive the answers they wanted, that is when the blows came, and the electricalshocks."The next day he was moved to National Guard headquarters in San Salvador. Hisguards joked about taking him to the best hotel in the country. His roommeasured roughly four by four feet. No toilet, no running water.He slept only about 150 feet from Vides Casanova's office, as he would laterfind out from schematic drawings of the National Guard compound. His ankles weretied with thick ropes.Once again, the interrogation began. The same questions were repeated: Why washe with those people? Who were the other doctors helping those people? Moreblows followed. Then more shocks.In the wood-paneled Florida courtroom, the doctor recounted the details withoutemotion as a hushed jury absorbed his words. But he was not really there, hesaid later. He could not recognize his own voice. The courtroom had receded,replaced by the torture chamber.At night, he could hear the screams of other men and women being tortured.Meager portions of tortillas and beans were the only nourishment. Romagoza'swounds were left untreated."I feel I am once again thrown on the floor naked, waiting for the next blow,"he told the jurors, "waiting for the next electrical shock . . . When is itgoing to come?""Do you remember Christmas Day 1980?"It was the first Christmas that Romagoza had ever been away from his family. Heand his wife now had a baby daughter, also named Laura. They didn't know wherehe was -- only that he had disappeared."That Christmas I had wanted to take my little girl to visit my mother," hetestified. Instead, "on Christmas when they were drunk, and on New Year's whenthey were drunk, torture was harsher, and it would vary."Blows and shocks increased each day. "The electric shocks . . . were almost likeour daily bread." Alligator clips were clamped on every part of his body -- histongue, testicles, anus, breasts and the edges of his wounds. Eventually hepassed out from the pain. Then they would wake him with water and continuetorturing him until he defecated.One of the defendants, he told the jury, visited him in his cell."They would call him the big boss. They would say the colonel.""And who was that?"Vides Casanova, director of the National Guard.The day of the visit, they cleaned Romagoza's wounds and blindfolded him. Hecould tell that this interrogation would be different from the others. A silencefell over the room -- there wasn't the usual chatter among guards. Footstepsadvanced, and a familiar voice began to ask questions."Could you," Romagoza's lawyer asked, "see anything at all of the person who wasinterrogating you?"Yes."What could you see?""I could see his boots, his trousers and the buckle to his belt.""Were the boots shined?""Very shined." His clothing was of a much higher quality than regular guardswore. And his voice -- who could forget it? That voice was everywhere on TV andradio. Everyone in El Salvador knew the voice of Col. Vides Casanova.The voice asked him about his connection to his uncles. The voice joked thatRomagoza was almost dead -- that he stank of death."After the colonel visited you, did your treatment change?"Yes."Did it become better, or worse?""It was worse . . .""Were you ever hung from ropes or pulleys?"They called it the plane. They took him to a room where they hung him by hishands. Sometimes they would suspend him by his legs. He was raped as he hungthere. "They introduced a stick . . ." And it was there, while he was hanging,that they shot him in the middle of his left forearm."They told me that was the mark they made for having helped those people. Andthey said that for the rest of my life I would bear the mark of a leftist, andthat I would never again do what I had been doing there."The bullet severed nerves, limiting motion and sensation in his thumb and middleand index fingers. Bleeding, he was still suspended by wires that dug into hishands. He tried to pull himself up to ease the pain, but this tightened thewires, and buried them deeper inside his fingers."They tightened so much they went halfway through my fingers," he said, hisvoice cracking. "I've lost feeling in three fingers in my right hand."Romagoza's eyes swelled with tears. "They were quite right, I would never everpractice surgery. I will never again be able to help people in such a way."After three weeks of torture, the guards took Romagoza to a room filled withcoffins. They placed him inside one barely big enough to hold his body. Hewaited two days inside the coffin before a guardsman came for him. This timethere were no guns, no blows, no threats. His two high-ranking military uncleshad managed to intercede."A guardsman pulled me out of the box and handed me over to the arms of myuncle, who carried me to his car.""As you were leaving did you see anyone else?""I saw my uncle, Colonel Mejia Arce, next to Colonel Vides Casanova.""Do you see Colonel, now General, Vides Casanova in the courtroom today?"Romagoza pointed to the man seated directly in front of him."That man," he said. "The one in the middle."Shoulders hunched, Vides Casanova stirred uncomfortably for a moment in his darksuit."And are you positive that that is the same voice that you heard from thecolonel back in the torture chamber in late 1980, early 1981?""Almost 90 percent sure, yes."Romagoza later came to wonder if his torture was protracted not because of apair of boots and a medical bag, but because the military suspected that he andhis prominent uncles were passing weapons to the guerrillas. National Guardsmen,and Vides Casanova in particular, pressed Romagoza repeatedly about this. Whyelse, they may have thought, would a doctor with two high-ranking uncles, bothcolonels, be caring for the poor in a militarized zone?"When you were released, how did you feel?""As if I had been born again.""Were you able to walk?"No."How much did you weigh?"After 24 days of detention, he weighed about 70 pounds, down from 120. He hadlost a great deal of blood, and badly needed a doctor. His neglected wounds wereinfected; some had worms in them. But friends turned him away, "because theywere afraid for what could happen to them if they helped me." Even his familywould not allow him to stay with them.He had to leave El Salvador. Not just for his own sake, but for his family's."That part, leaving El Salvador, was the worst," says Romagoza, whose wiferemained behind, determined to continue working in the red zones. He understoodher decision. What she was doing, he says, "was necessary at that time. Theyneeded a doctor there, and she was a good doctor." Romagoza was spirited intoGuatemala on a truck loaded with onions. From there, he made his way to MexicoCity, which had become a haven for thousands of Central American refugees. Helived with Salvadorans from his home town of Usulutan in a modest two-storyhouse near the airport. They nicknamed it the "Usulutan Embassy," because therewere sometimes as many as 15 people crowded into three small rooms. Most of themhad scars, though they didn't share what they'd been through."We would talk about politics, not our trauma," Romagoza says. "We wouldn't talkabout it. We dealt with it with alcohol.Psychologically, it was very hard. You wanted to cry, but couldn't."Romagoza worked as an accountant at a restaurant; on weekends he volunteered ata nearby clinic. He and his housemates tended a small garden behind their houseand bred rabbits, which they butchered and sold to support themselves. At themarket, Mexican neighbors who knew they were displaced Salvadorans would offerfree fruits and vegetables."The Mexican people were beautiful and wonderful," Romagoza says. The Mexicanpolice were a different matter. Wearing civilian clothes, they would approachSalvadoran refugees and ask for documents, threatening deportation. A bribewould buy Salvadorans the right to remain in Mexico, but such encounters alwaysheightened their fears.As economic conditions in Mexico worsened and police harassment increased,hundreds of refugees began heading to the United States. Romagoza joined them,deciding to cross the border with a group of Guatemalans. He and 14 others hidin a farmhouse, then hiked through the desert at dark, evading border guards.Ten hours after setting out, they arrived in California at daybreak, on April23, 1983.Romagoza wound up in San Francisco, where he found work as a janitor. He didn'tspeak much English, and it felt strange to be living in the United States, whichwas supporting the very people who had tortured him. Ordinary Americans, herealized, didn't understand their government's role in El Salvador's civil war."I was surprised by how little people knew about what was happening outsidetheir [borders]," Romagoza says. "People didn't know too much about the war inCentral America -- all they knew were 'communists' . . . That was a shock.Because I suffered the consequences" of U.S. policies.Back then, the U.S. Immigration and Naturalization Service was denying politicalasylum to nearly all Salvadorans. Some were even deported.Though he was illegal himself, Romagoza became active in the sanctuary movement,pushing to change U.S. policies toward Central America and its refugees. He wasattending a movement conference in Washington in 1986 when he stumbled upon LaClinica del Pueblo. Situated on the third floor of a red-brick building inColumbia Heights, the clinic was open only Tuesday nights and was struggling tostay afloat. But the Salvadoran community around it was vibrant and growing.Salvadoran street vendors sold sliced mangoes and tortillas outside the clinic,and the neighborhood was home to men and women from Romagoza's home town.Instead of returning to San Francisco, he volunteered at the clinic for sixmonths. In 1987, he joined full time. He couldn't treat patients, but he tookmedical histories, translated for doctors, cleaned and did whatever else wasneeded.There was a huge demand for La Clinica's services. Though they were thousands ofmiles from El Salvador, many immigrants still cringed at the sight of a policecar. Some wouldn't open the door to the mailman because his uniform remindedthem of the military. Some didn't go to the hospital or send their children toschool because the INS might find them there and deport them. Their pervasivefear -- that "terrible fear of everything" -- produced persistent headaches,gastric difficulties, depression and hypertension, Romagoza says.He suffered from many of the same symptoms. But he was finally working at aclinic again, doing exactly what he'd done in El Salvador: serving his country'spoor.Romagoza didn't really know his wife and daughter anymore. More than seven yearshad passed since he'd seen them. By 1987, they were living in Los Filos, roughly15 miles from Santa Anita, the town where Romagoza had been abducted.Laura Maria had never stopped delivering medical care to El Salvador's peasants.It was a mission she and Romagoza both believed in, but his long exile haddistanced them. Now even phone calls were difficult. "Eventually we communicatedonly through letters," Romagoza says, "and in some way we decided to separate."Then one day in 1988, a friend from San Salvador called Romagoza at the clinic.Did he know, the friend asked, that his daughter was now living with hermother's family and that his wife was missing?Romagoza's heart sank. He called his mother-in-law. "And she told me . . ."In Los Filos and the surrounding areas, the military had been stepping up theircounterinsurgency efforts. They called their strategy "quitarle el agua al pez,"draining the sea from the fish. By destroying the guerrillas' support networksand killing their sympathizers, they would make it more difficult for the rebelsto operate. Los Filos residents fled the area rather than risk being caught upin the military sweeps. But Laura Maria returned to town to get medical suppliesthat were hastily left behind. After the sweeps were over, friends found herbody. She'd been raped and then hacked with machetes.Romagoza's daughter, Laura, was 8 years old. She went to live with her mother'sfamily, first in San Salvador, then in Puebla, Mexico. Romagoza occasionallycalls Laura, now in her twenties and studying child psychology, and travels toMexico every year or so to see her. But he always stays in a hotel during hisvisits, rather than with his in-laws. To this day, he says, they blame him forLaura Maria's death. If it weren't for him, they say, she would never have begunworking in the red zones.He understands their anger, but doesn't feel responsible for Laura Maria'sdeath. "I knew she would say no if I asked her to leave El Salvador," he says."In some way, we thought: I will live here and she will live there, and once thewar is over, we would get together and be a family again.""General Garcia, you became minister of defense on or about October 15, 1979,correct?""Yes, yes, that is so."Wrinkled, graying and grandfatherly, Garcia had taken the witness stand in hisdefense. Romagoza watched from the plaintiffs' table with mixed emotions. Partof him hated this man and Vides Casanova. They were, he would say later, "thearchitects of the terror that all of us were crushed by." But part of him alsofelt sorry for them, especially Garcia, who reminded Romagoza of his father.Once the most powerful men in the country, they'd been "abandoned by theirmasters."Romagoza was right. Hardly anyone had shown up to support Garcia or VidesCasanova. No one from the Salvadoran government or military testified on theirbehalf. Only one former U.S. official spoke in their defense. Edwin Corr, theU.S. ambassador from 1985 to 1988, singled out Vides Casanova as "the personmost responsible for helping to improve the human rights situation in ElSalvador." But another U.S. ambassador, Robert White, testified on behalf of thetorture victims, reading a series of damning State Department cables to thejury."The major immediate threat to the existence of this government is theright-wing violence," White wrote on March 9, 1980. "Unfortunately, the commandstructure of the Army and security forces either tolerates or encourages thisactivity." In another cable, on May 21, 1980, he described confronting thedefense minister about the torture and killing of unarmed civilians by securityforces. "Colonel Garcia admitted that the excesses were grave and that he had agood idea who was responsible . . . Colonel Garcia made no promise, implicit orexplicit, to put an end to the official violence."During his testimony, Garcia defended the military's human rights record andinsisted that he had tried to protect Salvadorans from torture and repression."I did everything possible that was within my reach," insisted Garcia, who wasawarded the U.S. Legion of Merit in 1983 by President Reagan for his service inEl Salvador. "At that time, it was not easy." Killing and kidnapping were sorampant on both sides of the conflict that he sent his children to live in theUnited States in 1979. Two of his drivers barely survived assassinationattempts. A close friend was killed because of his relationship with Garcia, thegeneral told the jury.Vides Casanova, tall and imposing, with jowls that give him an air of sadness,took the stand after Garcia. This was the man Romagoza had accused of directparticipation in his interrogation.Kurt Klaus, the lawyer defending both generals, asked Vides Casanova about thediagram of El Salvador's National Guard headquarters, where some of Romagoza'storture had allegedly taken place. "General Vides, you saw the diagram that Dr.Romagoza testified to?"Yes."Could those cells have existed at the National Guard headquarters while youwere head of the National Guard?""They did not exist.""Is it possible that they existed in another building somewhere in SanSalvador?""It's possible. Not that I was aware of it.""Could they have been at the national police headquarters?""I wouldn't be able to answer that.""Could someone have been tortured on the 10 acres of the National Guardheadquarters without you knowing it in December of 1979?""I think it could have happened without one knowing about it, but I was neveraware of a single act of torture during my tenure at the National Guard . . . Inever spoke with anyone who was detained. And I have never interrogated anybodyin my entire life; that has never been my function.""Could that have happened for three and a half weeks beginning December 12,1980, at the National Guard headquarters? Could someone have been detained andtortured without you knowing?""To me, it is very difficult that someone could have been tortured under thoseconditions. Any torture, any scream could have been heard . . . Firing a gunshotinside a building would have been heard."The National Guard was doing everything it could to restore order to ElSalvador, he said. The entire country was in turmoil. "We all suffered," he toldthe jury, describing how his relatives were kidnapped, his house wasmachine-gunned, his mother's house bombed.Romagoza's lawyer James Green cross- examined Vides Casanova."General Vides, isn't it true there was not one single act of insubordination toyour orders during your entire 35-year career as military officer?""Not that I know of.""And General Vides, because you never ordered an investigation, you neverpunished anyone who was responsible for torture?""I never discovered anyone carrying out torture.""That is because you never ordered an investigation, correct?""Correct."After Vides Casanova was finished testifying, the defense rested its case. Thenthe judge honored an unusual request from the jurors. They wanted to see thevictims' scars. Romagoza bared his left arm where he'd been shot. Hisco-plaintiff Neris Gonzalez uncovered her arms, where a machete had sliced herand cigarettes had been burned into her flesh.Throughout the trial, Romagoza shuttled back and forth between West Palm Beachand Washington, where he threw himself into his work at the clinic. Anything totake his mind off the trial.His testimony had forced him to relive his darkest moments, says his therapist,Karen Hanscom, who works at Baltimore's Advocates for Survivors of Torture andTrauma and accompanied Romagoza to Florida.Not many people, she says, "can go through this sort of thing -- to allowyourself to go through just as much pain as when you were tortured," sheexplains. "He is the bravest man I know."Many Salvadorans thought so, too. One day, two fellow countrymen stopped by theclinic to offer their sympathy and talk about the trial. Over time their numbersswelled. Every weekend, as many as 25 Salvadorans would gather at the clinic foran update on the case, hanging on Romagoza's every word. Who testified? they'dask. How did the generals react? What will happen to them?They knew how hard it had been for Romagoza to recount his story. Many of themhad been victims of torture, of trauma. Some were widows. Others were kin of thedisappeared. They nicknamed themselves the "grupo de los tuertos," the group ofbroken ones. Together, they wept, joked, reminisced, raged.When closing arguments were finished in Florida, they held a party, celebratingnot only the end of the trial, but Romagoza's willingness to confront the past.The doctor was helping them all heal.The jury was on the verge of a verdict.Romagoza's lawyers called and urged him to return to Florida. His plane wasstill circling the West Palm Beach airport the morning of July 23, 2002, whenthe jury filed back into the courtroom. The jury foreman carried a folded pieceof paper."Has the jury arrived at its verdicts?" asked the judge."It has, your honor," answered the foreman.The generals were not in the courtroom. Their accusers Neris Gonzalez and CarlosMauricio, both of whom had recounted their torture in the same agonizing detailas Romagoza, waited tensely for the foreman to speak."In the case of Juan Romagoza Arce versus Jose Guillermo Garcia and CarlosEugenio Vides Casanova, we, the jury, return the following verdict upon theclaims of plaintiff Dr. Juan Romagoza Arce . . ."Court spectators gasped. Gonzalez and Mauricio exclaimed and wept. Afterward,the two Salvadorans and their lawyers raced from the courthouse to meet Romagozaat the airport. They caught him exiting the terminal and delivered the news: AnAmerican jury had awarded the three of them $ 54.6 million, including $ 20million to Romagoza for the loss of his surgeon's skills.Romagoza could not comprehend it. "I thought it was impossible," he says. "I wasshocked -- I was shaking."The case had made legal history, marking the first time such high-rankingmilitary officers living in the United States had been held accountable with thehelp of the Torture Victim Protection Act. Under the law, signed by the firstPresident Bush in 1992, it did not matter if the generals did not personallyexecute an order, or did not personally oversee atrocities. If they heldmilitary command over the perpetrators, knew or should have known of thetorture, could stop it but did nothing, they were responsible.The generals were already planning to appeal the decision, and Romagoza and theother plaintiffs might never see a dime of award money. But what the generals'attorney called "really just a torts case" had become something much moresignificant: a surrogate war crimes tribunal. For many Salvadorans, two decadesof denial and dissembling were over."I wanted to cry," Romagoza says, "cry out for all those who died in thestreets, died in the country, died anonymously. I think they'd be happy thatday."Vides Casanova eagerly hauls out his three-inch-thick scrapbooks, whichchronicle his military career. They are filled with photographs of three U.S.presidents: Jimmy Carter, Ronald Reagan and George H.W. Bush, and carefullypreserved invitations to presidential luncheons and rides aboard Air Force Twoand Marine One. Other photos show the general standing shoulder to shoulder withU.S. military officers; Colin Powell hovers in the background of ablack-and-white snapshot of a U.S. military classroom.Vides Casanova flips through the scrapbooks in the living room of his PalmCoast, Fla., home, where his life now revolves around his children andgrandchildren. Look at this, the general urges when he comes acrosscommendations from members of Congress and officers from the Southern MilitaryCommand. One lauds him as a "shield of democracy." In a letter accompanying oneof two U.S. Legion of Merit awards, Defense Secretary Caspar Weinbergercongratulates Vides Casanova for "broad institutional reform of the SalvadoranArmed forces" and "high professional and ethical standards."Months have passed since the end of the trial, and the general is stillstruggling to make sense of the outcome. "We tried to prove that we wereinnocent and that we had done everything proper throughout our lives; to try toshow that they were trying to accuse us unjustly," he says. "Our image wasdistorted, and it's a reality we now have to accept."He claims his life has been unaffected by the verdict, which is still beingappealed. He says this even though Romagoza's lawyers are trying to garnish $275,000 from his Merrill Lynch account and determine whether he has any overseasaccounts and assets. Vides Casanova doesn't express any hostility toward thosewho sued him, not even Romagoza."I felt sadness for being seated across from Salvadorans and not being able toshake their hands," says Vides Casanova. But he adds that they were probablyexaggerating their experiences.He speaks with an air of authority, explaining, in Spanish, the holes in theplaintiffs' case. With flowing hand gestures, he argues that since none of themcame forward to report their torture to the authorities at the time, theiraccusations are baseless. He boasts about the Salvadoran military's discipline,professionalism and organization.Then he's asked about U.S. State Department cables describing massive humanrights violations during his command. He's asked about documented massacrescommitted by National Guardsmen. He's asked about paramilitary death squads andthe notorious body dump at El Playon, just 20 minutes from his office.Vides Casanova's lips curl, and his hands grow still. He compares himself to adoctor who wasn't capable of knowing everything happening in his hospital. Heexplains that though parents can train a child to be disciplined and obedient,"the son can do something without the parents realizing it." He insists he onlyheard rumors of torture during his tenure, though he never ordered anyinvestigations to find out whether they were true.He says he served his country; his conscience is clear.The sounds of blow dryers and ringing telephones drift through Jose GuillermoGarcia's house in Plantation, Fla., where, the general says, he gets by on a $700-a-month Salvadoran military pension. He takes his grandchildren to schooland stays active at his church. His family and faith, he explains through atranslator, were a great source of strength during the trials.Garcia came from a poor family and saw the Army as his escape route frompoverty, though the military wasn't his first career choice. "I really wanted tobe a doctor -- that was my dream. I really wanted to heal people . . . That wasmy dearest interest."He says this without irony or guilt. Romagoza, he is reminded, was trying toheal people when he was detained. But Garcia doesn't buy that story."All the doctors had left that area in Chalatenango because they were worriedthat the terrorists were going to capture them," Garcia says. "And so how canyou explain that this man was helping the poor there? He should have been in themain hospital."He deserved to be detained -- he was dressed in combat boots from EagleScouts."Even so, Garcia doesn't want anyone to think he countenanced torture; he says hedidn't. "Absolutely nothing justifies the use of torture. It's really not usefulfor anything -- it just worsens the problem."Later, he says "it is possible" torture occurred, "but I was never privy toseeing it."Is it possible you didn't investigate the torture, disappearances and massacresunder your command?"Yes, it's possible."Is it possible you didn't do anything to discipline the men responsible forthese acts under your leadership?"Yes, it's possible.""I really tried to be perfect before the law, but nobody is perfect," Garciasays. "The only one who never does anything wrong is the one who never doesanything, period."The longer he talks, the more agitated he becomes. "El Salvador was on fire," heinsists. "There were some of us who went out to defend our country and we hadthe approval and support of the majority of the people in El Salvador . . . Inever gave an order that wasn't legal, I never sent anyone to get killed."By the end of the interview, he seems worn out, used up. Garcia goes to get hiswife, who has apparently been listening from another room. Her eyes are red asshe says thank you and farewell to their guests, a reporter and his translator.She does not meet their gaze.The waiting room at La Clinica overflows with patients on a winter morning, butno one seems to mind the lengthy queue to see a doctor. In this community, LaClinica is a treasured sanctuary. Its patients don't have to struggle to explaintheir aches and pains in English; the staff of 50 speak Spanish.Patients don't have to worry about their lack of medical insurance; treatment isfree. They don't have to answer questions about their immigration status; theclinic doesn't know and doesn't care if they are here illegally.Romagoza presides over the institution he has helped build with tremendous prideand a seemingly endless supply of energy. He works here six and sometimes sevendays a week, immersing himself in the daily dramas and demands.Today, the heat is out, and the phones aren't working. Every time it rains, theroof leaks. The building on Irving Street NW has never had an elevator --patients in wheelchairs have to be carried up a flight of steps -- and vividmurals of peasant life can't make up for the ridiculously tight quarters. Theplace just isn't big enough to handle 31,000 patient visits a year.Romagoza and the clinic board have long wanted to expand, to move to a larger,more modern space. Now, after seven years of fundraising, they are about torealize their dream. The clinic is getting ready to relocate to a three-story, $3.4 million facility with 10 examination rooms, 11 mental health and HIVcounseling rooms, a chapel and a children's playroom.As moving day approaches, the excitement grows. And so does the sadness. For allits shortcomings, the old clinic is filled with memories. Romagoza arranges forpsychotherapists to visit with the staff for three or four sessions."We had to prepare ourselves" for the emotional fallout of the move, Romagozasays later. "Many people at the last minute didn't want to move. They said, 'Iwant to be here. I love this building.' That was the big fear for everybody:that we would lose our identity."The last workday in the old building arrives, on April 4, 2003. The staffmembers close the building with a ceremony of remembrance. They read poems andtestimonials. Share laughter and shed tears.And then they start dancing -- a conga line snaking through the hallways to thestrains of mariachi music. When they are finished, they fall in line behind theband and head up the street to the new building on 15th Street. Each staffercarries a stick of incense or a candle and one cherished item from the oldclinic. Romagoza brings a Bible given to him by a former patient. A largepainting of Archbishop Romero heads the procession.The new La Clinica is pristine, untouched, with freshly painted walls in Latinreds, oranges and yellows. From Romagoza's office, he'll be able to see patientscongregating in the waiting room, hear their rapid-fire Spanish. The staffmembers gather for a moment of silence in their new home. Romagoza standsquietly, thinking about all the moves he has made and the goodbyes he has said."I remember when I came here, how I was a refugee," he says later. "I came herewith nothing -- only my clothes. I moved from El Salvador, Guatemala, Mexico,[California] and then [to] Washington. Moving, moving, moving. But each time hasbeen a little different, a little improved."The torture didn't end his journey; it was, in retrospect, its starting point.After the trial, Romagoza found himself longing to return to El Salvador. He'dbeen back before. In 1991, after an armistice between the government and theguerrillas, he returned to Chalatenango and sought out the place where his wifeis buried. Her grave lies in a forest near the Honduran border, marked by asimple cross. It is, Romagoza says, a peaceful place. Someday, after hisdaughter finishes school, he'll take her there.He also ventured to Santa Anita, the town where he was abducted during the feastof the Virgin of Guadalupe. It looked exactly the same as he remembered it. "Twowomen actually recognized me," he says. "They were amazed and said, 'Were youthat young doctor who helped us during the war? We thought you were dead!' "From then on, he returned to El Salvador twice a year, seeing firsthand how thecountry was recovering from years of bloodshed. Under their agreement with thegovernment, the guerrillas were integrated into El Sal- vador's civilian policeforces. The National Guard and the military were downsized, becoming lessvisible and menacing. The U.N. Truth Commission report detailed many of thewar's worst atrocities, but a sweeping amnesty law guaranteed that no one in ElSalvador would be tried for them. No one would be punished for the torturecells, the massacres, the body dumps. It was as if a conflict that had claimed75,000 lives and wounded thousands of others had never happened."We don't talk about the war," Romagoza says. "In some way, that's how weresolved things in El Salvador."But the trial in Florida had pierced the silence, making headlines in SanSalvador just as it had in Washington. Now that the testimony was over, the fearwas back. Romagoza wanted to visit Usulutan, but delayed the trip for months. Ifthere had been death threats before the testimony started, what would he facenow? Many people in El Salvador thought Romagoza was rich as a result of theverdict, though he has yet to receive any money.That perception could make him a target for kidnappers in one of Latin America'smost crime-plagued countries. His family didn't think he'd be safe.But he couldn't stay away. After the opening of the new clinic, he boarded aplane to San Salvador to spend Easter with his family. Relatives met him outsidethe airport. They were armed, just in case.Romagoza kept a low profile throughout the visit. He missed some of the HolyWeek events in Usulatan because of the throngs they attracted. Friendsaccompanied him on walks, and they made him turn his lights off at dark.Few people asked him about the trial, especially in public. "They say it isdangerous to remember," Romagoza says. Sometimes it came up over dinner withclose friends. None of them could get over his willingness to confront the past.But by doing so, he says, he has loosened its hold on him.When he was in his cell, he remembers, the first thing he would hear in themorning was the Salvadoran national anthem. The guards would listen to it at 6a.m. as they finished their breakfasts and were preparing to resume theirbeatings.For years, Romagoza could not bear to hear that music. Then, when he was back inEl Salvador this past spring, he heard the anthem being played on the radioearly one morning as he made his way to the market. He stopped to listen. Themusic no longer reminded him of black-booted men coming to hurt him. Instead itmade him think of the country he'd always loved: its mountains, its dusty roads,its churches, its people.De la paz en la dicha suprema / siempre noble so El Salvador.Of peace enjoyed in perfect happiness / El Salvador has always nobly dreamed.Joshua E.S. Phillips is a freelance journalist based in New York. Juan RomagozaArce will be fielding questions and comments about this article at 1 p.m. Mondayon www.washingtonpost.com/liveonline.