NFL players must adhere to all types of rules regarding on-field safety. It'stime for them to work under one addressing the use of inappropriate language inthe workplace.There's momentum within the NFL to institute a rule by which players would bepenalized 15 yards for using discriminatory words on the field, especially theN-word. A second violation could result in an ejection. Enacting such a rulewould be the correct thing to do, and the NFL should be highly motivated to doit.Two events recently - University of Missouri all-American defensive linemanMichael Sam announcing he is gay, and the harassment, racism and homophobiacited in the report on the Miami Dolphins' bullying scandal - have stirredquestions about tolerance in the NFL. The commissioner's office has reaffirmedits commitment to creating a safe working environment in which players are freeto be open about their sexual orientation. A rule prohibiting on-field slurs isthe next logical step in that process.For NFL players, the field is their office. There are laws prohibiting the useof discriminatory language in the workplace. In no other business are employeeslegally empowered to harass co-workers based on their race, ethnicity, religiouspreference or sexual orientation. Why should the working environment in the NFLbe any different? It's as simple as that, though I realize use of the N-word iscomplex.In the NFL today, African American players regularly use the word. They shout itin celebration while praising teammates for a job well done. Count on manyAfrican American players bristling at a suggestion there's something wrong withpart of their language and culture, which the NFL is moving to eradicate fromthe game.I've struggled with questions surrounding the word. I've taken part in heatedarguments with friends, both black and white, about when, where and by whom theN-word should be used. The issue is deeply personal for me and many AfricanAmericans.Ultimately, however, I stopped using the word several years ago - and it has noplace in the NFL workplace.If the NFL were to implement a no-slur rule (it's expected to happen during theannual league meeting in Orlando next month), many league observers likely wouldargue it's unfair to hold players accountable for what's said during the heat ofcompetition. Playing in the NFL isn't like working in an office or even on afactory assembly line, some would say, so professional athletes should play bydifferent rules. But they'd be wrong.The Dolphins report was a wake-up call for the entire league. The deplorableconduct of guard Richie Incognito and his cohorts, offensive linemen John Jerryand Mike Pouncey, in harassing linemate Jonathan Martin and other team employeescreated a hostile working environment in the Dolphins' locker room. Theimage-conscious NFL doesn't want that, particularly with Sam poised to becomethe league's first openly gay player.In advance of the league's annual scouting combine in Indianapolis last week,the NFL sent a memo to teams reminding them that the league prohibitsdiscrimination against players based on a variety of factors, including sexualorientation. Although the league is framing its potential anti-slur rule aroundthe most racially incendiary word in the English language, it appears that isjust a pretext to create a deterrent for harassment against Sam and other openlygay NFL players in the future.Despite the widespread support Sam received from league owners, officials andplayers after coming out about his sexual orientation, he potentially could faceharassment from the less enlightened in their ranks. For the public, Sam wouldbecome the face of the proposed new rule. A great side benefit would be theeffect the rule could have on discouraging the use of all slurs, especially theone that is socially unacceptable to say to blacks.The group formed to promote diversity in hiring in the NFL has been a drivingforce in trying to end the use of the N-word in the league. John Wooten,chairman of the Fritz Pollard Alliance, is strongly in support of the league'sthinking, and "I will be totally shocked if the competition committee does notuphold us on what we're trying to do," Wooten told CBS Sports at the combine."We want this word to be policed from the parking lot to the equipment room tothe locker room," he said. "Secretaries, [public relations] people, whoever, wewant it eliminated completely and want it policed everywhere."Through the years, the true offensive meaning of the word has been obscured byits use in popular culture. Hip-hop artists have glorified it in rap lyrics.Among blacks in all walks of life, the word often is used as a term ofendearment and empowerment. That certainly isn't what civil rights leaders ofthe 1950s and '60s envisioned when they sacrificed, sometimes with their lives,to fight for equal footing in society.The fact that several misguided African American Dolphins players were amongIncognito's most vocal defenders despite his use of the slur illustrates thecavalier attitude many in the black community have about its use. But for Wootenand others pushing for a no-slur rule, all that matters is that the N-word isconsidered inappropriate in the workplace. I like their thinking.Rules evolve to adapt to changes in the game. The NFL is undergoing great change- and it needs an important new rule for these times.jason.reid@washpost.comFor more by Jason Reid, visit washingtonpost.com/reid.