Frank M. Kratovil Jr. is accustomed to being the man in charge.Elected state's attorney in Queen Anne's County at 34, he became one of theyoungest people to serve as a top county prosecutor in Maryland. After six yearsin that post, Kratovil (D) won a hard-fought election to Congress.Then, last fall, he lost his bid for reelection.In the aftermath of that loss, Kratovil got a call from new Prince George'sCounty State's Attorney Angela D. Alsobrooks. She asked him to work for her -not as her deputy, but as her third in command.It took months, but Kratovil finally came around. He was recently sworn in asAlsobrooks's assistant deputy."When you lose a political race, you have a professional soul-searching,"Kratovil, 43, said in an interview. "You strive to strike a balance in yourlife, while doing what you like to do. I've always loved the prosecution side ofthings, dealing with law enforcement, going home at the end of the day feelingyou've done something good."Kratovil will have his hands full in Prince George's.He is in charge of Circuit Court prosecutions, which include most felonycharges, such as murder, sexual assault and armed robbery. Kratovil said he willsupervise the prosecutors who handle the case against Alexis Simpson, 19, who isaccused of fatally stabbing her Bowie State roommate Dominique Frazier, 18, onSept. 15. Prosecutors reporting to him are also handling the case of two countypolice officers indicted last week in the beating of an unarmed University ofMaryland student last year.Kratovil also will head up two new sections, one targeting repeat violentoffenders and one focusing on criminals accused of violating the terms of theirparole.Alsobrooks and Kratovil said focusing on repeat violent offenders could put adent in Prince George's crime rate because a relatively small number of peopleare responsible for the majority of violent crimes in the county.And having a team of prosecutors tracking parole violators is part of her planto try to reduce recidivism in the county, Alsobrooks said.Alsobrooks said the reaction in her office and around the courthouse to thehiring of Kratovil has been positive.Circuit Court Judge C. Philip Nichols Jr. is among those happy to see Kratoviljoin the county state's attorney's office. "He's bright, articulate andcompetent," Nichols said. "Every time somebody that squeaky clean comes here,it's a major advance for us in Prince George's County."Working in the Prince George's state's attorney's office is a homecoming ofsorts for Kratovil, whose father is a retired county Circuit Court judge. Raisedin Lanham, Kratovil was a prosecutor in Prince George's for a couple of yearsbefore he moved to the Eastern Shore in 1997 to work as an assistant state'sattorney in Queen Anne's County.He was elected Queen Anne's state's attorney in 2002. Kratovil served one fullterm and part of another before defeating Andy Harris (R) in a tightcongressional race to represent Maryland's 1st District in 2008. Harris handilywon the rematch last fall. The district includes the Eastern Shore and severalBaltimore suburbs.Kratovil said that he is considering running again for his former congressionalseat or perhaps launching a bid to become Maryland attorney general.http://www.washingtonpost.com/blogs/maryland-politics/post/ex-rep-kratovil-to-work-for-prince-georges-states-attorney/2011/08/29/gIQASjVGnJ_blog.htmlIf he decides to mount a campaign, Kratovil said he plans to work for the PrinceGeorge's state's attorney's office through the election. He said he continued towork full time as Queen Anne's state's attorney during his first campaign forCongress.Kratovil is earning $125,00 annually in his new post. He and his wife, Kim, wholive on Kent Island, have five children, ages 1 to 13.castanedar@washpost.com