The new legislative season has started, and several lawmakers whose bills didnot pass last year are picking up where they left off.Rep. James P. Moran Jr. (D-Va.), for example, will again sponsor a bill to helpfederal retirees who are losing hundreds, if not thousands, of dollars each yearbecause they spent part of their federal career working part time."This is not just some quirk in a sterile formula," Moran said in reintroducinghis legislation. "These are real people who are suffering a real hardship thatCongress never intended."Congress approved a formula change in 1986, partly to prevent part-timeemployees from gaming the system by working full time in their last years beforeretirement to receive a higher benefit. By most accounts, Congress intended toexempt existing employees at the time so they could not claim that the ruleswere being changed on short notice or unfairly.But congressional intent got lost in the process of writing the regulation. Therevised formula penalizes federal employees who worked before April 1986,usually full time, and then retired after that as part-time employees.Doug Reeves, whose wife faces a substantial reduction in her retirement benefitsand who has studied the formula, said the problem lies in a two-step calculationthat was adopted.Under the formula, Reeves said, an employee's service gets broken into twoparts: a pre-1986 component and a post-1986 component.The former uses actual salary to adjust for part-time employment. The latteruses a "deemed" full-time salary and a pro-rated factor to adjust for part-timework.But, as the regulation has been used, some employees were not able to applytheir full-time salary to their pre-1986 full-time employment. As a result,Reeves said, the longer the employee works part time, the more the full-timework before 1986 is devalued for annuity calculations.Reeves said an example that shows the mechanics of the formula and where it cango wrong has been published at www.homestead.com/ptretirement/federal.html, a Web site created by a grass-roots group thatwants the formula fixed.The group contends that the formula deserves congressional attention in partbecause the Office of Personnel Management has encouraged part-time employmentas part of its family friendly policies. OPM officials, who have acknowledgedthat the formula has caused unintended consequences, prefer that Congressdetermine and authorize a remedy.There is no tally of the number of retirees who have received incorrectpensions. Moran said many of the people affected are workers who cut back ontheir hours to care for an ill spouse or deal with other family matters. In manycases, the workers were women, Moran said.Joining Moran as original co-sponsors are Reps. Constance A. Morella (R-Md.),Frank R. Wolf (R-Va.), Thomas M. Davis III (R-Va.), Benjamin A. Gilman (R-N.Y.)and Albert R. Wynn (D-Md.) and Del. Eleanor Holmes Norton (D-D.C.).The National Association of Retired Federal Employees has endorsed the bill,Moran said.Rep. F. James Sensenbrenner Jr. (R-Wis.) and Sen. John W. Warner (R-Va.) willback legislation to hold federal agencies accountable for discrimination,harassment and retaliation in the workplace.Sensenbrenner introduced his bill on the first day of the 107th Congress, andSenate aides said Warner plans to introduce his version today. The legislationgrew out of a House Science Committee hearing last year into allegations ofdiscrimination and harassment at the Environmental Protection Agency.Under the proposed legislation, when agencies lose judgments or make compromisesettlements in whistle-blower and discrimination cases, the agency would pay thepenalty out of its own budget, rather than out of a general fund as currentlyoccurs.The bills also would require agencies to inform employees of their rights underapplicable laws and to submit annual reports to Congress and the attorneygeneral listing cases and the total amounts of penalties and other cashpayments.Lawyer G. Jerry Shaw will discuss the rights and responsibilities of federalemployment at noon Wednesday on Federal Diary Live at www.washingtonpost.com.Please join us.Stephen Barr's e-mail address is barrs@washpost.com.