Here are recent postings from Valerie Strauss's blog, The Answer Sheet:Even as proponents of abstinence-only sex education continue to hope that thehealth care reform package will fund their programs, President Obama issupporting a broader approach to the subject.Sarah Kliff at Newsweek reports that funding for sex education in a 146-pageappropriations bill for the departments of Labor, Health and Human Services,Education and related agencies does not require an abstinence-only approach.That's a change from the Bush administration.Under President Bush, $1.8 billion was appropriated for abstinence-only sexeducation. In the Obama-backed bill, there is no mention of abstinence-only. Forthat matter, it also doesn't mention "comprehensive" sex education, a term usedto include teaching about contraceptives and other issues.A panel of independent experts recently concluded that sex-ed programs that arealong the comprehensive lines -- encouraging teens to delay sexual activitywhile teaching them about contraception -- can reduce risky behavior, increasecondom use and lower the chances of getting the AIDS virus and other infections.But there wasn't enough evidence to know the effectiveness of programs thatfocus on encouraging teens to remain  abstinent until marriage.The main thrust of the Obama-backed bill is to provide funding for programs thatcan prove they work.Now that's a novel approach to education, isn't it?* * *I think I've left a false impression.Three times in the past month, I've had people tell me that I am anti-test. Theyhave gotten this idea from my posts about the dangers of high-stakesstandardized testing.One was a mention  about how I was diagnosed with "over-comprehension" in secondgrade because I gave more than one answer on a multiple-choice standardized testand annotated them in the margins.For whatever record there is, I am not opposed to tests. It seems painfullyobvious that some tests are important and valid, and if tests didn't exist, we'dgo ahead and create them. What is troubling is how we use the results of teststo judge students, schools and teachers, even when these tests are poorlydesigned or tell us little about true ability.* * *Which 2009 news story scored the most hits on the Web site of Briar  Woods HighSchool's student newspaper, the Falcon Flyer, in Ashburn?The answer may surprise you. Here are the top five news stories, local andnational, that rocked the Briar Wood community, as determined by the Flyer'sjournalists:5. The school's National Honor Society raising more than $2,000 for the Susan G.Komen Foundation for breast cancer research.4. The school winning its first two state championships in 2009: senior OmarOmokhodion won top honors at the track and field championship for boy's discus,and the Varsity Cheer Squad became state champs.3. A  killing and rape in Landsdowne that rocked the community in March. Policearrested four suspects age 17 to 21.2. The domestic-violence case in which musician Chris Brown was found guilty ofattacking his girlfriend, singer Rihanna, which got the most hits on the Flyer'sWeb site and was deemed the second most-important story of the year. Theassault, the Flyer said, led many teens to question their own relationships andthe obsession with celebrity.1. The biggest story at Briar  Woods, and everywhere else in the nation: BarackObama becoming  the first African American U.S. president and the unfolding ofhis administration.For all The Post's Education coverage, visit http://washingtonpost.com/education.