It is difficult to unleash your inner Bob Marley in Sudan, butsinger-songwriter Abazar Hamid is trying. He submits peace and love songs monthafter month to the government's music monitoring committee, an apparently surlybunch that mostly censors and rejects them."Songs like 'New Sudan,' they didn't like. Songs like 'Peace Darfur,' theydidn't like. Next week, I'll try the Abyei song," Hamid said, referring to areggae song about a contested Sudanese town recently destroyed by governmentforces. It includes the controversial line, "My brother, be with me.""I talk with them and talk with them, and sometimes they allow it," he said.Hamid, who is 37 and sweet-voiced, has earned some renown around Khartoum, thecapital, for his sentimental love songs that get radio airplay. But he recentlydecided to give up his day job as an architect to devote himself full time tothe more controversial goal of using music to transform a country so often atwar with itself.At the moment, there is conflict in the Darfur region in the west, thepossibility of a return to civil war in the south and rebels in the east.In that context, Hamid's Rainbow Project involves trying to slip lyrics abouthuman rights and dignity past the suspicious government monitors. Hamid, amarried father of three who favors groovy hippie shirts and knit caps, is alsohoping to record an album of peace songs, if he can find the money and aproducer abroad.But he was here in this desert trading town in Darfur recently working on themost ambitious part of the project. It's an effort to reform the traditionalArab singers known as Hakama -- more colloquially, the Janjaweed women -- whoare about as far from Bob Marley as it gets."They are singing you have to kill, kill, kill," Hamid said. "They have a biginfluence on the community and a very dangerous role in conflict."A bit propagandists, a bit hate radio, Hakama singers exist in just about everyArab town and village in Sudan. Their traditional role is to compose and singsongs to stir up men's baser instincts and launch them to war.During the early part of the Darfur conflict, many were paid with cash, gold andjewelry by local authorities to sing songs urging the government's nomadic Arabmilitias -- which came to be known as the Janjaweed -- to kill, rape and pillageethnically African civilians. According to an Amnesty International report, onelyric went like this:"The blood of the blacks runs like water, we take their goods and we chase themfrom our area and our cattle will be in their land!"Hamid sat in the hot shade of a tree with a dozen or so Hakama singers, tryingto convince them of the less financially rewarding, and perhaps less exciting,merits of singing about peace.Wrapped in green, red, yellow and peach sarongs, their eyes rimmed black withkohl, the women did not seem entirely convinced. One heavily perfumed womanboasted that her beauty and voice had persuaded five men to go to war, wherethey all died."I felt very brave and ran after the horses without my head scarf," said thewoman, Khadija Jacob, recalling the day she sent a group of several thousandmilitiamen to fight. "I felt proud because of that. We feel excited. When it iswar, you have to do that. If you don't sing for your men to kill, other men willcome and kill you."Hamid pressed on. He taught the women the lyrics to "Peace Darfur," and theysang it with faint enthusiasm. He talked with them about how they felt now,seeing the destruction the war has caused."I want the men to go outside the village and fight because I'm afraid of war,"Jacob told him. "Later, I felt sorry, because I know one day my family will beaffected, and because I see the child of a man who died every day" around town.The main obstacle to reforming the Hakama singers, Hamid said, is money. As theHakama leader, Fatima Osman Ahmed, told him: "Many people can pay for war --nobody pays for peace.""This is a problem," Hamid said. "How to make money off of this."Hamid said he'd never heard of Bob Geldof, the rock star, political activist andpromoter who has helped organize several music festivals to benefit Africa, thelatest being Live 8 in July 2005."I was never contacted," Hamid said, seeming genuinely surprised that he wasn't.For now, Hamid -- whose favorite singers are Marley and Ray Charles -- makeswhat money he can performing at festivals, such as one here recently. Dozens oftraditional Arab leaders in white robes danced and shook their walking sticks tothe rollicking, synthesized "Peace Darfur" before local authorities shut downthe concert early.Some of his songs have been played on Sudanese radio, mostly innocuous ones."The love songs make it," he said. "The others, they don't."Hamid, who lives in an apartment in Khartoum, has a lawyer, and they often arguewith members of the government committee when they try to censor his lyrics orban his songs. Sometimes it works.He recently cut a pragmatic deal with the censors to let him record and produce"New Sudan" and "Peace Darfur" in exchange for never singing a song he wrotetitled "Enough.""And now the whispering became screaming," the lyrics go. "And the ash burns asa fire in opposition to cheating. We will not wait for a long time. We will notwait until night."To see a video of singers performing songs written by Abazar Hamid or to readmore of these features, go to the Worldview page at www.washingtonpost.com/worldview.