President Obama is scheduled to sign legislation Wednesday that will end themilitary's "don't ask, don't tell" policy, officially shifting to the DefenseDepartment the political pressure surrounding the repeal of the 17-year ban ongays serving openly in uniform.Even after Obama scrawls his signature, the law won't actually change until thePentagon certifies to Congress that the military has met several preconditions,including education and training programs for troops. On Monday, Pentagonofficials repeatedly declined to predict how long they would need, saying onlythat they would proceed at a "methodical" and "deliberate" pace."I don't think anybody has any idea yet how long this will take," Pentagonspokesman  Geoff Morrell said.As senior military leaders prepare to integrate openly gay men and lesbians,they are drawing on conclusions of a Pentagon study outlining tricky scenariosthat might arise. Among the hypothetical situations in the report: A chaplain'ssermon includes several direct statements calling homosexuality a sin. Anapplicant informs recruiters that he is gay. Troops are heard making jokes aboutusing the same showers as gay colleagues.Some commanders who oppose the repeal warned in the days before Saturday'shistoric vote to end the ban that such incidents could compromise the military'sability to fight two wars. But the 300-plus-page report provides potentialsolutions for each, and reminds commanders that such issues should be treatedthe same as incidents of harassment, racism or sexism.The sermons and teachings of the chaplain could not be restricted, unless hepublicly maligned military leaders, the report said. The applicant who shareshis sexual orientation should be handled like any other recruit. Commandersshould remind the joking troops that discrimination or harassment against gaycolleagues is inappropriate, but could grant a service member's request not toshower among them.The process of ending the ban should not be "overly burdensome," White Housepress secretary Robert Gibbs said Monday.In an e-mail sent Sunday night to airmen, Air Force Chief of Staff Norton A.Schwartz said: "The standards of conduct we expect of all Airmen will notchange. Moreover, we will continue to treat each other, as members of the AirForce family, with dignity and respect."Clifford L. Stanley, the undersecretary of defense for personnel, will lead thepolicy overhaul, the Pentagon said. The change will not occur until Obama,Defense Secretary Robert M. Gates and Joint Chiefs of Staff Chairman Mike Mulleninform Congress in writing that the military is prepared for implementation andhas drafted the necessary policies and regulations. Those changes must notaffect troop readiness, cohesion, or military recruitment and retention,according to the law. Once the written notice is submitted, 60 days must elapsebefore "don't ask, don't tell" is officially repealed.Gay rights leaders who pushed to end the policy think the military could endfull enforcement in a matter of weeks."The troops already know how to interact with gays because they do so everyday," said Aaron Belkin, executive director of the Palm Center, a think tank atthe University of California at Santa Barbara that is devoted to the study ofgays in the military.Some gay rights activists are urging Obama and Gates to issue an immediatemoratorium on the discharge of gay troops. Morrell said Monday that doing so wasunlikely, but he noted that Gates previously tightened the rules under whichservice members can be kicked out of the military for being gay.The new rules, which took effect Oct. 21, require the secretaries of the Army,Navy and Air Force to review all discharge cases. Since then, no one has beenforced out under the new policy, Pentagon officials said. Cases that were in thebureaucratic pipeline before  October, however, have resulted in some recentdischarges; Pentagon officials said they could not say how many.Frank Barrett, a professor of management and organizational behavior at theNaval Postgraduate School in Monterey, Calif., predicted that the military willmove quickly to implement the new law, but that the ease of doing so will varywidely among the different branches."The real challenge of repealing 'don't ask, don't tell' is that it challengesthe warrior ethos, what it means to be a warrior," Barrett said. Warriors, hesaid, forge a "bonding love" during combat and preparation for war. The questionthat arises, he said, is: Can people who are uncomfortable with gays continue toform those close warrior bonds with openly gay troops?"The Marines are going to have the hardest time, and the Air Force is going tohave the easiest time," he said. "The Air Force doesn't do eye-to-eye combat.But Marines, they are close-knit in close quarters, and the identity ofhyper-masculinity is so core to their mission."Gen. James F. Amos, the Marine Corps commandant and one of the chief critics ofending the ban, said Sunday that Marines "will step out smartly to faithfullyimplement this new policy."Among many Army officers, news of the repeal yielded more of a shrug thancelebration or outrage."The talk among most of my soldiers is, 'We don't care,' " said one Army officerat Fort Stewart, Ga. "The perception has been for a while that this is a donedeal and is going to happen sooner or later."Most officers said that repealing the law would at least bring some clarity tothe murky situation surrounding it. One officer who recently went through apre-command course to prepare him to lead a combat arms battalion said thepossibility of ending the law barely came up during several weeks of courses."Culturally, it will be okay - especially with the younger soldiers," theofficer said. A worry that he and many others share is that the Pentagon wouldoverreact to perceived problems in a unit and institute some form ofmilitary-wide training."My biggest concern is how stupid the bureaucracy gets if something happens,"the officer said. He and other officers were spoke on the condition of anonymitybecause they are not authorized to discuss the matter on the record.ed.okeefe@washingtonpost.comwhitlockc@washpost.comStaff writer Greg Jaffe contributed to this report.