WILLIAMSBURG, Va. - House Republicans are cloistered at a tony golf resort herefor three days hoping to resurrect their battered political brand, as theyprepare for what could be another damaging confrontation with President Obamaover federal spending.At their annual retreat, House members said there is general fretting about thedamage done to the party's image by the strident tone adopted by some candidatesand officials."It's a time for self-reflection," said one member, who spoke on the conditionof anonymity to share details of the private discussions. "Our identity with theAmerican people has really, really suffered, and this is a conversation aboutcollectively restoring a values-driven identity."Although there was some urgency for a change, the consensus was that the changewas about how to communicate, not about rethinking core policy positions."This is about tone. It's about messaging and it's about showing people whatwe're for instead of what we're against," said Virginia Gov. Robert F. McDonnell(R), describing his  message to House Republicans at a lunch-time sessionThursday."Rape is a four-letter word - don't say it," the group was advised by aRepublican pollster in another session, said one person familiar with thediscussion. That was a reference to controversies about rape and abortion thatwere partly to blame for the GOP losing two Senate seats - in Indiana andMissouri - in November.Sessions this week included advice on turning around troubled organizations fromthe chief executive of Domino's Pizza and a motivational address from the firstblind man to summit Mount Everest. But much of the retreat was devoted to whatamounted to open-mic sessions to let members strategize for the upcoming fiscalfight.The nation has reached its $16.4 trillion credit limit and without congressionalaction, the Treasury Department has said the government will be unable to meetits spending obligations sometime in February or early March. Many Republicanswant to use the moment to extract deep spending cuts from Obama, including inentitlement programs.The president says that without increased borrowing authority, the nation willdefault on its debt obligations and send the world's economy into a tailspin.One possible course, aides said, would involve raising the debt ceiling for justa few months in exchange for several hundred billion dollars in budget cuts,probably culled from a bipartisan list developed in 2011 in talks led by HouseMajority Leader Eric Cantor (R-Va.) and Vice President Biden.A longer-term debt-limit increase would be available thereafter, but only if theRepublican-led House and the Democratic-led Senate approved a framework to settax and spending policies for the next decade.That would avoid a federal default and move the negotiation to areas in whichthe president seems more amenable and have less impact on the broader economy:the automatic spending cuts to military and domestic programs set to hit inearly March and the expiration on March 27 of a funding bill to keep thegovernment running."If we're willing to do it, we want something in return," said Rep. John Fleming(R-La.), one of the chamber's most fiscally conservative members. "Ourconstituents are going to demand that. Even if it's short-term, what are wegetting for that?"House Budget Chairman Paul Ryan (R-Wis.) said the goal is to use this moment toreduce deficits, while recognizing that Republicans are limited by the fact thatthey do not control the Senate or the White House."We think the worst thing for the economy is to move past these events that areoccurring with no progress made on the debt and the deficit," Ryan said,offering his most expansive exchange with reporters since his unsuccessful vicepresidential bid. Aides said Ryan is reassuming his role as the GOP's front manon budget issues.The House Republicans' retreat follows a particularly rocky period for thempolitically: The November election went poorly. Besides Obama's defeat of MittRomney, Democrats enlarged their Senate majority and picked up eight seats inthe House.Lawmakers and staff members attending the retreat described the discussions aspassionate and intense, but not angry."I think this is a time where now you can catch your breath a little," said Rep.Greg Walden (R-Ore.), noting that the gathering comes just two months afterElection Day and after weeks of intense wrangling over the "fiscal cliff" andthe start of a new Congress.The retreat will continue into Friday. One senior aide said that as of Thursday,the conversation was dominated by the fiscal debate. Members only brieflydiscussed gun control, a topic that Obama indicated this week will be a coreplank of his second-term agenda. On that issue, Boehner told members privatelywhat he has been saying publicly:    The House will not act until it sees whatthe Senate does.Republicans have spent more time broadly discussing a need to address thenation's immigration laws, and they will hold a session Friday on "successfulcommunications with minorities and women."Walden, responsible for getting more Republicans elected to the House aschairman of the National Republican Congressional Committee, said he hopes theGOP will be more sensitive to how it appeals to Hispanics before futureelections."We may not understand how what we say is interpreted by others and we have tobe sensitive and understand the effect of our language," he said.heldermanr@washpost.comed.okeefe@washingtonpost.comLori Montgomery contributed to this report.