There's a point in the new documentary "Anita" at which Sen. Howell Heflin isquestioning Anita Hill."In trying to determine whether you are telling falsehoods or not, I've got todetermine what your motivation might be," the Alabama Democrat said duringHill's 1991 testimony before the Senate Judiciary Committee, concerning hersexual harassment allegations against Supreme Court nominee Clarence Thomas."Are you a scorned woman? Do you have a martyr complex? Do you see yourselfcoming out of this as a hero in the civil rights movement?"Hill, as composed as ever, answered calmly: "No."Imagine if a male member of Congress tried Heflin's approach now: FeministTwitter would nail him to the wall. There would be countless think pieces aboutinstitutionalized sexism. One envisions Amy Klobuchar, Dianne Feinstein andMazie Hirono (all current members of that Senate committee) initiating the sortof withering, civilized takedown that would spike C-Span ratings and make "DailyShow" writers whoop with glee.Maybe that's a measure of how far we've come in the 23 years since Hilltestified against her former Equal Employment Opportunity Commission colleague."Anita," which premiered at Sundance and opens Friday in Washington, states thatHill was essentially put on trial, even though the hearings were supposed to bean examination of Thomas's character after President George H.W. Bush nominatedhim to the court. Her credibility was impugned, and there was innuendosuggesting that she was just seeking romantic revenge against Thomas.To a new generation of women, in the age of such Web outlets as Feministing,Feministe and Black Girl Dangerous, that is dumbfounding. Many may look at thescreen and think of Heflin: "He can't be serious."Turns out, he wasn't, entirely."There are different ways to see what Howell Heflin was trying to accomplish,"Hill said in a phone interview from her Brandeis University office. "He wasreally preempting things from being asked by people in a more hostile way."Heflin, who died in 2005, and Hill knew it was ridiculous, yet there was noescaping it."These were things that were being said out there," Hill said. "And I do believemaybe it wasn't the most artful way of doing it, but he was giving me a chanceto respond to those things [in a way less confrontational than what] the hostilepeople and the accusatory people might be doing later on had he not raised thequestion. It's a technique that was lost on us at the time. There was just somuch hostility and so much seeming disconnect between our experiences and ourlives, and what they seemed to be able to understand and comprehend."Hill, a college law professor, was subjected to a round of media slut-shaming sointense that it spawned a bestselling book, "The Real Anita Hill," by AmericanSpectator writer David Brock. It was Brock who coined the phrase "a little bitnutty and a little bit slutty" to discredit Hill. He later founded Media Mattersfor America, a liberal media watchdog group. He has since recanted what he wroteand publicly apologized in his book "Blinded by the Right."Hill was the target not just of hate mail and death threats but also of theverbal tactics of the all-male Judiciary Committee, whose members apparentlydidn't understand what it meant to be sexually harassed."Sen. [Arlen] Specter, he took an adversarial role," Hill says in the film,referring to the late Pennsylvania lawmaker. "It was clear Specter had come inwith a closed mind."What's so different from 1991? Women still haven't achieved parity in most ofAmerican politics. They account for 20 percent of the Senate and roughly 18percent of the House of Representatives.  And attitudes toward such issues assexual harassment and sexual assault have improved in the United States, butinstitutions - including the military and some college campuses - still failwhen it comes to protecting women.Consider that Jessica Valenti, founder of Feministing, still has to explain whyit's important to identify rape culture when RAINN, the nation's largestadvocacy group for rape victims, recently told the White House that rape culturedoesn't exist.In a more subtle but no less frustrating case, a report by lawyers for NewJersey Gov. Chris Christie blamed the "Bridgegate" scandal on former deputychief of staff Bridget Anne Kelly's lack of judgment because she'd been dumpedby his campaign manager, Bill Stepien.In some ways, the atmosphere is as adversarial as ever. Take the case of ArmyBrig. Gen. Jeffrey Sinclair, who received no jail time after he was accused ofsexual assault and convicted of sexual misconduct. Rep. Jackie Speier (D-Calif.)called the verdict a "mockery of military justice.""I think one of the things that was so disheartening to people in 1991 is thatthe Senate just didn't seem to take the issue of sexual harassment seriously atall," Hill said. "They didn't take it seriously on how it reflected on thecharacter of a person, especially a person who was going to be judging thesekinds of claims. But they did seem to be very dismissive of women'sexperiences.""The General Sinclair situation makes me understand, specifically, how importantprocess is. The process that he was tried under has certainly been held up to alot of scrutiny," Hill continues. "Process really matters, and I think a lot ofpeople, the public, believe the process failed. I think that's critical for us."This film isn't a critical look at what's wrong with Congress, or even theprogress that's been made when it comes to workplace policies and how theyaffect women. It's a story about Hill, what happened in 1991, and why shedecided to come forward. It's a statement that suggests that while Hill may havelost the initial battle, she - and all opponents of sexism - are winning thewar.soraya.mcdonald@washpost.com"Anita" director Freida Mock will appear for Q&A sessions after 7:15 p.m.screenings Friday and Saturday at E Street Cinema. (Activist Julian Bond willappear for the Friday screening; both shows are sold out.)(This article was excerpted from She The People: washingtonpost.com/blog/shethepeople.)