Former Washington Redskins player Albert Haynesworth pleaded no contest to amisdemeanor assault charge Monday, averting a trial on a sexual assault chargestemming from a February incident at a downtown hotel lounge.The trial was scheduled to begin Tuesday. Haynesworth, 30, agreed to undergoalcohol-abuse and psychological-social assessments and to perform 160 hours ofcommunity service as well as to stay away from the victim - a cocktail waitressat the W Hotel who said he groped her after a party- for 18 months.If Haynesworth fulfills those terms, according to the deal, his record will becleared. If he does not, he could face as much as 180 days in jail and a $1,000fine. The prosecution agreed to immediately drop the sexual assault chargeduring Monday's hearing in D.C. Superior Court at the insistence ofHaynesworth's attorney, A. Scott Bolden.Haynesworth stood with his hands in his pockets during the hearing before SeniorJudge Geoffrey M. Alprin. Bolden nudged Haynesworth to remove his hands as headdressed the judge.Under the nolo contendere plea, Haynesworth agreed that prosecutors had enoughevidence to win a conviction. "I do not contest the government's proffer offacts," Haynesworth said softly after the prosecution read the details of whathappened at the hotel.Haynesworth had been charged with fondling a waitress as he slipped his creditcard inside her blouse to pay his bill early Feb. 13.http://www.washingtonpost.com/sports/albert-haynesworth-alleged-to-have-sexually-assaulted-a-waitress/2011/02/14/ABpOLqQ_story.htmlhttp://www.washingtonpost.com/sports/albert-haynesworth-alleged-to-have-sexually-assaulted-a-waitress/2011/02/14/ABpOLqQ_story.htmlAlprin accepted Haynesworth's plea. "I find that he is guilty of simpleassault," Alprin said. He set a Feb. 21 hearing to review Haynesworth's statusand ordered him to pay a $250 fine.Haynesworth arrived in Washington on Sunday in preparation for Tuesday's trial.Sources familiar with the case said both sides worked feverishly over theweekend to reach an agreement.In the run-up to the trial, both sides had accused the other of offering moneytoinfluence the outcome. And the victim, then a student at Howard University, wasloath to testify, according to sources familiar with the case. Bill Miller, aspokesman for the U.S. attorney's office, said the victim was reluctant totestify but was cooperating with prosecutors. The Washington Post generally doesnot identify victims of sexual assault.Attorneys and officials familiar with D.C. law said the combination of ano-contest plea and a deferred sentencing agreement was uncommon.The Redskins traded the defensive lineman to the New England Patriots lastmonth. The NFL will review Haynesworth's case under its personal conduct policy,according to a league spokesman. The policy enables NFL commissioner RogerGoodell to fine or suspend players for off-field misconduct.There were some light moments in Monday's hearing, which took about 40 minutes.When the judge asked Haynesworth whether he was satisfied with his attorney'sservice, Haynesworth said, "Yeah," and lightly patted Bolden's back. And whenAlprin asked about a potential date for the February hearing, Bolden said hehoped to avoid potential conflicts with the Super Bowl - but also that did notwant to be "presumptuous" in assuming that his client's team would be playing init.Arriving at the courthouse minutes before the hearing, Haynesworth emerged withBolden from a black Cadillac Escalade, smiled and said,"Go Patriots," to thegathering of reporters.Haynesworth climbed back into the sport-utility vehicle while Bolden held abrief news conference after the hearing with the Cadillac idling behind him.Bolden said his client was "pleased to have the case over so he can move on withhis life." Then the SUV pulled away, leaving Bolden to track it down on foot,later to find it had circled the block.alexanderk@washpost.comPost staff writer Mark Maske contributed to this report.