It's almost enough to give socialism a bad name.We don't know whether Dominique Strauss-Kahn - who heads the InternationalMonetary Fund and, until a few days ago, was likely to be the Socialist Partycandidate for president of France - is guilty of the alleged sexual assault forwhich he was arrested. Like anyone, he is presumed innocent until courtproceedings prove otherwise.We do know, however, that at the time of the reported incident on Saturday,Strauss-Kahn was resident in a $3,000-a-night luxury suite at a posh midtownManhattan hotel. We also know that when he was taken into police custody hourslater, aboard a Paris-bound jetliner that was moments from takeoff at John F.Kennedy International Airport, police found him comfortably ensconced in thefirst-class cabin.I didn't think this was how socialists were supposed to roll.The tinge of opulent decadence that colors the whole episode would seem, atfirst impression, to cast a dishonorable light on powerful, unaccountable,jet-setting international bureaucrats in general, with perhaps a specialspotlight of shame for the French-intellectual variety. But Strauss-Kahn, who isbased at IMF headquarters in Washington, was apparently in New York on privatebusiness. It is conceivable that he and his peers, while carrying out theirofficial duties on behalf of humanity, make do with hotel rooms costing less pernight than most workers of the world earn in a year.Then again, had it been an IMF trip, Strauss-Kahn would have been covered bydiplomatic immunity - and thus, perhaps, might have avoided the indignity ofbeing held overnight in the Special Victims Unit lockup while detectivessearched his person for potential DNA evidence. He almost certainly would havebeen spared the handcuffed "perp walk" before a frenzied scrum of photographersas he was transferred to court for arraignment.It's hard to look at Strauss-Kahn's predicament without a sense of irony andperhaps a touch of schadenfreude. There is nothing remotely amusing, however,about the alleged assault - which, I should note, his attorney categoricallydenies.Whatever happened took place at the Sofitel, one of the sleeker of New York'supper-echelon hotels. A 32-year-old female housekeeper - according to publishedreports, an African immigrant - entered Strauss-Kahn's suite to clean up,believing the guest had already departed. In her account, Strauss-Kahn emergednaked from the bathroom. She apologized and tried to leave, but Strauss-Kahnallegedly blocked her way, accosted her in the suite's bedroom and then sexuallyassaulted her in the bathroom.The housekeeper reported the alleged attack to her supervisors, but by the timepolice were called, Strauss-Kahn had checked out. He later called the hotel tosay that he believed he had left his cellphone behind, however, and, accordingto published reports, a fast-thinking hotel employee told him - falsely - thatthe phone had been found and asked where it could be delivered. This isapparently how authorities learned he was at JFK, waiting to board an Air Franceflight to Paris. Airport police swooped in and made the arrest as the jetprepared to push back from the gate.Strauss-Kahn's arrest had immediate and far-reaching impact. The most definitiveseemed to be the extinction of his political career - and with it, perhaps, thebest chance the Socialist Party might have had of defeating President NicolasSarkozy in next year's election. A perp-walk photo is the kind of thing nopolitician recovers from. Well, no politician except former D.C. mayor MarionBarry.And the arrest came amid delicate, complicated and urgent negotiations to rescuethe European Union's most threatened economies. Strauss-Kahn was a key figure inthe ongoing talks, and while others can pick up where he leaves off, thefinancial markets could be unnerved by his sudden absence.Commentators in France expressed shock, outrage and embarrassment. Even if theNew York allegations turn out not to be true, the incident revived memories ofan admittedly improper affair that Strauss-Kahn had with a subordinate. Frenchnewspapers quickly produced stories recounting what they described asStrauss-Kahn's long history of aggressive, obnoxious, even predatory behaviortoward women.It's useful to be reminded that there was a time when powerful men could expectsuch incidents to be dismissed as misunderstandings or indiscretions orpeccadilloes, not prosecuted as criminal assaults. Yes, this sounds like the ageof the dinosaurs. Dominique Strauss-Kahn gives every evidence of being one.The writer will answer questions at 1 p.m. today at www.washingtonpost.com. Hise-mail address is eugenerobinson@washpost.com