THE HORNED MANBy James LasdunNorton. 193 pp. $ 24.95For 25 years I have deliberately resisted every impulse to use the adjective"unputdownable." But records are meant to be broken, and James Lasdun's darkpsychological thriller The Horned Man is . . . "unputdownable." What's more --and here's yet another reviewer's cliche[acute] -- I began the novel at 10 p.m.and finished its last page at 2:15 a.m., way past my bedtime. But I could nosooner have stopped reading than I could have stopped breathing, even thoughthere were moments when I did, involuntarily, hold my breath. The peaceful toneof the narrator's voice, his softly growing sense of the uncanny and menacing,his ever more bizarre yet perfectly rationalized behavior, and finally thedeepening conviction, for the reader at least, that there is something not quiteright about what is being described -- all these generate an eerie off-kiltercalm. And so one waits, uneasily, for the storm.Lawrence Miller is a professor of gender studies, newly appointed at Arthur ClayCollege, just outside New York. He is unhappily separated from his beloved wife,Carol. We don't know why, for Lawrence is clearly attentive and thoughtful,though a bit of a prig. He's particularly hypersensitive to any sort of sexualharassment, repulsed by a womanizing colleague and eager to behave properly onevery social occasion. Quite an ordinary guy, really, albeit prone to suddenblushing and occasional migraines. But then Lawrence starts to notice certainperplexing anomalies in his life:"One afternoon earlier this winter, in a moment of idle curiosity, I took a bookfrom the shelf in my office and began reading it where it fell open on a pieceof compressed tissue that had evidently been used as a bookmark. I'd only hadtime to read a few sentences when I was interrupted by a knock on the door.Reluctantly -- the sentences had looked interesting -- I closed the book on itsmarker and returned it to the shelf."The next morning I took it down again, intending to continue reading where Ihad left off, only to find that the marker was no longer at the page it had beenon the day before. Leafing through the book, I found my sentences thirty pagesearlier. Either I had moved the marker inadvertently myself, or else some nightvisitor had been reading the book in my absence."And so Lawrence Miller's nightmare begins. Soon he realizes that some unseenperson is actually watching him, that the previous tenant of his office had diedsuddenly, that a vulgar East European professor named Trumilcik caused some kindof sexual scandal at the school and was fired, and that objects, computer filesand people inexplicably disappear over night. What is going on?What indeed? Lawrence takes the train back and forth to New York, where he rentsan apartment, and over time we learn more and more about his childhood, his lifewith Carol, and his obvious susceptibility to pretty women. His languagenoticeably brightens and grows sensuous when he describes the leather skirt of atart glimpsed on the street or the youthful sexiness of a graduate assistant,"her sleepy eyes, her short reddish-orange hair dividing in soft feathery wispsdown the fluted back of her neck, her skin freckled and unnaturally pale, almostsilvery." Lawrence also has one or two peculiar habits. For instance, when henotices that someone has left a message on his home answering machine, hedeletes it "without listening to it, so as not to risk the disappointment of itnot being from Carol."As an academic, he naturally displays an occupational taste for moodyphilosophical speculation. "I thought of the three of us -- myself, Trumilcik,and Elaine [a colleague] -- each present there via our more or lessphantasmagorical versions of each other, our recondite emblems of ourselves. Andfor a moment I felt I was at the point of grasping what it was that made thefull unfolding of another human being into one's consciousness so painfullydazzling that one spent one's life contriving ways of filtering them, blockingthem out, setting up labyrinthine passageways between oneself and them,kidnapping their images for various exploitative purposes of one's own, andgenerally doing all one could to fend off their problematic, objective reality."All this theorizing may be very well, as are weekly sessions with a psychiatriston Central Park West, but what should Lawrence actually do when the campaignagainst him starts to grow more vicious, even brutal? It doesn't make sense.What has he done to deserve such cruel attentions? And how can he counter them?Fortunately, during the day, thin, blond Prof. Miller teaches his classes, eatslunch with colleagues, remarks that the school's attorney seems attracted tohim. Being only human, he occasionally surrenders to a little sexual fantasy.The chair of the Sexual Harassment Committee is so "wholesome" that "even if hewere to do something on the face of it utterly crass or gross, such as slidinghis hand up Elaine's skirt, the action would become instantly so blameless thatnobody would bat an eyelid." Perhaps. Then again, perhaps not.Do you think you see where The Horned Man is going? Guess again. Then again.Maybe you were right the first time? James Lasdun doesn't, I think, fullyaccount for every plot element he sets up -- not much is done with gradassistant Amber or her essay, for instance -- but you close the book with ashudder. Here is a first novel, by a well-regarded poet and short-story writer,that belongs with John Fowles's The Collector, Charlotte Perkins Gilman's "TheYellow Wall Paper," and Shirley Jackson's The Haunting of Hill House. It is amasterpiece of chilling, mesmerizing control. *Michael Dirda's e-mail address is dirdam@washpost.com. His online discussion ofbooks takes place on Thursdays at 2 p.m. at washingtonpost.com.