"Ask yourself why a processed food is discounted at any given time," says EllenRuppel Shell, author of the new book "Cheap: The High Cost of Discount Culture.""It's not seasonal." The answer, I guess, is that the producer is trying to ginup demand. Or that the parent company got a gush of commodity subsidies. Or thatsomeone built a machine that can press twice as many Wheat Thins in an hour.But Shell's point is well taken: Prices at the grocery jag and wiggle like aHill intern trying to negotiate 18th Street after a long night. And consumersdon't generally know why. No one hands out a pamphlet explaining that lobsterprices have fallen as low as $2 a pound because, on the one hand, Maine has donesuch a superlative job managing its lobster fishery that the catch is triplewhat it was 20 years ago, and on the other, lobster is one of the signalpurchases that people cut back on during a recession, as it's considered theculinary equivalent of a gem-encrusted scepter. All we know is that lobster ischeap right now.Affordable lobster turns out to be a happy -- and delicious -- story. But in herbook, Shell tackles the tale of cheap shrimp, which turns out to be a bit moretroublesome. "Many of us can still remember [shrimp] as a delicacy," writesShell, "served in a martini glass with a side of cocktail sauce or foldedtenderly into cream sauces." That's how I remember shrimp, at least. Growing up,it was my favorite food. But it was a rare treat. One Thanksgiving, my familysplurged and went to the buffet at the local Hilton. They had an unlimitedplatter of cocktail shrimp. I'd never seen such a thing before. My plate lookedlike a revenge fantasy against crustaceans. My older brother, sensing thatabundance had led me to temporarily lose my mind, bet me that I wouldn't finishthe food. He lost.Now shrimp are commonplace. Red Lobster offers up an "endless shrimp parade" for$15.99. Between 1980 and 2005, consumption of shrimp tripled as prices halved.The supply of shrimp transformed totally, as did the price. In her book, Shelltracks the forces behind the change. Some of them are predictable: Shrimpstopped being caught and started being farmed. The trade moved out of Americaand into Thailand. The little critters are covered in antibiotics, pesticidesand disinfectants. Increased demand induced outside investment. Technologicaladvances made shrimp production more efficient. The result: While a traditionalshrimp pond yielded 450 pounds of shrimp per acre, the industrialized shrimpfarms produce 89,000 pounds per acre.Some of the changes, however, are less predictable. The companies rely ondirt-cheap migrant labor (this is migrant labor, remember, because the Thailabor market is too pricey), and the documented abuses range from child labor toworker torture to rape. The mangrove forests that used to protect the coastlineand sustain the ecosystems have been cleared out (a 2002 study estimate that65,000 hectares had been lost to shrimp farming), and their absence contributedsignificantly to the death toll from 2004's brutal tsunami. The surroundingwaters are thick with chemicals and waste and salt."Shrimp today are not like shrimp of the past," says Shell. The transformationof the production process has created a materially different product, albeit onestill called "shrimp." The taste is different, the nutrition is different, theaccompanying chemicals are different, the impact on the environment isdifferent, the economies it supports are different, the waters it lived in aredifferent, the food it consumed is different.Shell argues that it is a conceptual mistake to understand an item that has gonethrough such massive price and production changes as "an exact analogue" to itscostlier predecessor. "It's not a good chair," she says, "it's a good cheapchair. It's not a good shrimp, it's a good cheap shrimp." Anyone who has eaten afresh summer tomato and a supermarket's winter imitation will know what Shellmeans.None of this is to say that lower prices are always bad, or higher prices alwaysgood. It's not even to say that affordable shrimp are bad. And the lobsterexample is a nice illustration of low prices resulting from enlightened fisherymanagement and the simple dictates of consumer demand. It is just to say thatprice changes, particularly radical ones, have a story, and generally one worththinking about and inquiring after. Sometimes, as in the lobster example, it's astory we want to be part of. But sometimes it isn't. And there's nothing on theprice tag to tell us which is which.Ezra Klein can be reached at kleine@washpost.com or through his blog athttp://www.washingtonpost.com/ezraklein.