It's hard to believe this nasty and brutish presidential campaign is coming toan end.According to our Pinocchio Tracker, through most of the race President Obama andRepublican challenger Mitt Romney were neck and neck for the average number ofPinocchios, about two each. But then in the final months of the campaign, Romneypulled ahead (so to speak) with a series of statements and commercials thatstretched the limits. Obama's average also got worse - and was nothing to beproud of.In the end, Romney finished with an average ranking of 2.4 Pinocchios, comparedwith 2.11 for Obama. Not counting debates (when we awarded no Pinocchios), werated 92 statements by Obama and 77 by Romney - as well as more than 200 claimsmade by surrogates and interest groups, as well as other GOP candidates. Amongthe primary aspirants, Rep. Michele Bachmann (Minn.) finished with the worstrating overall of any candidate - an average of 3.08 Pinocchios.Here are some of the lowlights of the 2012 campaign.Most Absurd 'Fact' - Republican versionFormer House speaker Newt Gingrich's claim that Ronald Reagan never got a breakfrom the "elite media" as an actor. As an example, Gingrich said only one ofReagan's movies - "King's Row" - got a good review from the New York Times.First, Reagan was a Democrat when he was in show business, so Gingrich's pointwas nonsensical. Second, four of Reagan's top 10 movies got raves from the NewYork Times - and "King's Row" was panned.Most Absurd 'Fact' - Democratic versionMaking a pitch for the president's jobs bill, Vice President Biden repeatedlyclaimed that incidents of rape in Flint, Mich., had tripled after the policeforce was cut, as part of a dubious argument that there was a connection betweenthe crime rate and the number of police. He even asserted that rapes and othercrime would increase if the GOP did not vote for the jobs bill. But you need tohave your facts straight if you are going to make incendiary charges. Weinvestigated, and it turned out that incidents of rape in Flint actually fellafter the number of police was cut.Worst Super PAC Ad - Republican versionA pro-Gingrich super PAC released a 29-minute video titled "King of Bain," whichportrayed Romney as a greedy job killer ruining the lives of Americans. Itforeshadowed the Obama attacks on Romney's record as chief of Bain Capital, butit was so over the top that it made many of those later ads seem tame. One "casestudy" featured selectively edited footage of interviews of workers, who latersaid they were misled about the purpose of the film. They actually had nocomplaints about Romney or Bain at all.Worst Super PAC Ad - Democratic versionPriorities USA Action, a pro-Obama group, aired a provocative ad that suggestedRomney was responsible for the cancer death of the wife of a former steelworkerwho had lost his health insurance. But it turned out she died from cancer fiveyears after the closure of the plant - and had her own health insurance for aperiod after the steelworker, Joe Soptic, lost his job. As we put it, "On justevery level, this ad stretches the bounds of common sense and decency."Silliest Blooper - Republican versionUntil we highlighted this claim, Romney had made this line a regular staple ofhis campaign stump speech: "We are the only people on the Earth that put ourhand over our heart during the playing of the national anthem." We easilydisproved this by randomly searching YouTube and finding numerous examples ofsports figures and schoolchildren from around the world placing their hands ontheir hearts during the playing of their national anthems. Apparently, Romneywas trying to ding Obama for once failing to do so during the 2008 campaign, buthis belief in American exceptionalism was misplaced.Silliest Blooper - Democratic versionObama's claim that President Rutherford B. Hayes was so adverse to new ideasthat he had asked of the telephone: "Who would ever use one?" It turns out thatthe 19th president was such an advocate of new technology that  he not onlythought the telephone was "wonderful" but also installed the first one inWashington, in the White House, just four months after it was introduced. Histelephone number was "1."Most Baseless Claim - Republican versionThe repeated claim that Obama said that government, not people, built successfulbusinesses. The truncated quote "you didn't build that," drawn from a late-nightrally with ungrammatical phrasing by Obama, became the basis of repeated attackads and even the first night of the GOP convention. But any fair reading ofObama's comments showed he was making a standard Democratic argument aboutcommunity success - and that "that" referred to roads and bridges.Most Baseless Claim - Democratic versionSen. Harry M. Reid's repeated claim, made with zero evidence, that Romney"hadn't paid any taxes for 10 years." The Nevada Democrat said he knew this wastrue because a person who had invested with Bain Capital had called his officeand told him this "fact." We couldn't find a single expert who thought there wasany credibility to the Senate majority leader's reckless claim. Romneyeventually released a summary prepared by his accountants showing he had paidfederal and state taxes in each of the past 20 years.Claim That Would Not Die - Republican versionNearly two years ago, we looked deeply at Romney's claim that Obama had gone onan "apology tour" as a new president - and we found no evidence to back up theassertion. Yet a version of that claim appeared in almost every speech by theRepublican nominee, and Romney defended it in the final presidential debate.Then his campaign cut a new ad from his remarks, skillfully snipping out thefact that Romney incorrectly said the offending speeches were made in the MiddleEast.Claim That Would Not Die - Democratic versionThe Obama campaign repeatedly asserted that Romney, while at Bain Capital, hadoutsourced jobs to foreign countries such as China and had also sent jobs toIndia as governor of Massachusetts. The evidence was slim, at best, and oftenturned on obscure issues as whether Romney still ran Bain Capital while taking aleave to manage the Winter Olympics in Salt Lake City.  Few non-facts everreceived as much ink and television time.'Mediscare' - Republican versionRepublicans initially claimed that Obama raided $500 billion from Medicare tofund the health-care law - a figure that later jumped to more than $700 billionfor arcane budget reasons. But these were reductions in projected spending,mainly aimed at providers, and would not affect traditional Medicare benefits.Moreover, Republicans had adopted virtually the same "cuts" in their ownbudgets.'Mediscare' -Democratic versionDemocrats repeatedly charged that seniors would pay $6,400 extra a year inMedicare premiums under the overhaul plan promoted by Romney's running mate,Rep. Paul Ryan (Wis.). But this was a figure far in the future, based on anearly and less-generous version of the plan. A recent study of the "premiumsupport" model suggested any actual increase in premiums would be far less.Worst Math Skills - Republican versionRomney's math showing how he would add 12 million jobs in his first term aspresident. He cited three studies, which collectively added up to 12 millionjobs, but the studies had 10-year time frames, not four. Moreover, two of thestudies did not even evaluate Romney's own plans.Worst Math Skills - Democratic versionObama's claim that "90 percent" of the current deficit is due to PresidentGeorge W. Bush's policies, such as the wars in Iraq and Afghanistan. Obamacertainly inherited a mess, but any reasonable accounting showed that as histerm wore on, Obama's policies increasingly were responsible for the deficit. Byour estimate, by 2011, about 44 percent was due to Obama's policies. Bush'spolicies were responsible for about 10 percent, and the rest was due to therecession and forecasting errors.A 'Plan' That Doesn't Exist - Democratic versionThe Obama campaign claimed that Romney would raise taxes on the middle class by$2,500. This was based on a nonpartisan study trying to figure out how Romneycould cut tax rates by 20 percent but still make his tax plan revenue-neutral.The study concluded that eventually the elimination of tax deductions for thewealthy would also affect the middle class. So Romney's math may not have addedup, but he never had a plan to raise taxes.A 'Plan' That Doesn't Exist - Republican versionThe Romney campaign countered that attack by charging that, instead, Obama wouldraise taxes by $4,000 on the middle class. This was also based on a study, whichcalculated the distribution of the debt burden on Americans. Obama's budget fellin a middle range, and Romney's budget would probably have a similar effect. Butthis was not evidence of a planned tax increase. Far from it.Most Complex Subject to Spin - bipartisan effortThe Obama administration's memo saying it would accept welfare waivers relatedto worker participation targets prompted bipartisan spinning. The Romneycampaign aired an over-the-top ad that accused Obama of gutting the welfarereform law, even though no waivers have yet been issued. But the Democraticcounterspin was also questionable, leaving largely unanswered what theadministration hoped to accomplish with the new rules.kesslerg@washpost.comTo read previous Fact Checker columns, go to washingtonpost.com/factchecker.