For days, Monsignor John Enzler has tried to find the right words.He has sat in his study, deep within the Shrine of the Most Blessed Sacrament inNorthwest Washington, with scripture in hand and the latest news on his mind,trying to figure out what, if anything, he will say to his parish about theclergy sex-abuse scandal sweeping across Europe.It is a question playing out in parishes across the country as millions ofCatholics head to church to celebrate Good Friday and Easter, the holiest daysin the Christian calendar. But this year's observances will be held in theshadow of one of the darkest church scandals in modern history.As a parish priest, the church figure closest to everyday Catholics, do youavoid the subject altogether? Do you slip it into the Good Friday bulletin? Ormeet it head-on with an Easter sermon?"The thing is, this is not exactly what people expect on Easter," sighed Enzler,whose high-profile congregants include "Hardball" host Chris Matthews andconservative commentator Patrick J. Buchanan. "They come dressed in their Easterfinery, having gone through the Lenten season, excited about the coming joy. Tohear this kind of a message would be pretty rough."To not address it, however, could alienate those on the fence -- those withdoubts, who want answers, honesty and transparency from the church. To saynothing, Enzler worried, leaves the question hanging in the air, an opening tobe filled by critics and negative stories in the media.For weeks, the Catholic Church was largely silent as the furor over casesinvolving thousands of children in Ireland, Germany and other parts of Europegrew and led to questions about Pope Benedict XVI's handling of such abusesduring his time as a high-ranking cardinal.Now the church is mounting a massive public relations offensive against suchallegations and against the continuing barrage of media reports andinvestigations. This week, high-ranking officials -- including the pope'ssuccessor as head of the Congregation for the Doctrine of the Faith and a churchofficial who was involved in a case against a Milwaukee priest accused ofmolesting 200 deaf children -- have gone on the attack, challenging news reportsas inaccurate and portraying them as a smear campaign against the Holy See.The pope, New York Archbishop Tim Dolan said  during a Palm Sunday homily, was"suffering some of the same unjust accusations, shouts of the mob and scourgingat the pillar as did Jesus."On Tuesday, the U.S. Conference of Catholic Bishops issued a letter backing thepope, emphasizing his support for victims and reforms after sex-abuse scandalserupted in American dioceses. And Thursday night, Washington Archbishop DonaldW. Wuerl included a similar message in his homily.But not all Catholics have leapt to the church's defense. The Rev. Thomas Reese,a scholar at Georgetown University, said the suffering-Jesus metaphor might bemore fittingly applied to the victims of abuse. Reese, who spent the weekanalyzing the church's crisis and preparing a Good Friday message for hischapel, said he asked himself, "Who among us has experienced the betrayal,suffering and torture Jesus felt more than the victims?"To drive home that point, victim advocates are planning a Good Friday event infront of the Cathedral of St. Matthew in Washington. "A vigil, not a protest . .. It is a sacred day, after all," said organizer Jessica Lillie. "But GoodFriday is a day of sorrow, and we want the church to stop hiding the sorrow ofvictims."Meanwhile, caught in the midst of this Holy Week war of words are therank-and-file priests who have struggled with how to address the growing scandalwith their parishioners."It's painful to hear it all as a priest. It's a sadness beyond words," saidMonsignor Robert Panke of St. Patrick Catholic Church in downtown Washington,who decided that he would not bring it up during Mass this week."In some ways, after all we've gone through in the U.S., it feels like bybringing it up again we are discounting all the good work and changes that havetaken place the past few years," he said. "And I'm not sure if it's spirituallyfruitful to focus on that during Easter."The Rev. Gerard Creedon of St. Charles Borromeo in Arlington County came to theopposite conclusion. "Silence is inadequate in a situation like this," he said."Trying to be as honest as we can, acknowledging the problem is what's needed tobe an open church."For weeks at the Shrine of the Most Blessed Sacrament, Enzler said nothing. Thenon Monday, four mothers in his parish -- recent converts with 10 children amongthem -- asked what he thought of the scandals. You need to say something, theytold him. The topic was on the mind of every Catholic across the country. It wasthe elephant in every chapel hall, at every Mass.The next morning, troubled by the conversation, Enzler began thinking aboutreferring to it in the Easter bulletin. Working with his secretary in thechurch's old offices, he wrote and rewrote three sentences for the Pastor'sCorner segment of the bulletin."I wanted to be careful to say it well, to say it right," Enzler said. The firstversion was too heavy on apology. "You want to admit that the church isn'tperfect, but the last thing you want is to add fuel to the fire."This was the crux, he realized, in which the church found itself: It needed toadmit missteps, but worried that by doing so, it would fall prey to theaccusations of its critics.With almost four decades in the priesthood, Enzler recalled that some of hismost powerful sermons were ones in which he let down his guard and becamevulnerable with his flock. By sharing his struggles, he thought, hisparishioners could see the true heart of the church and its priests. They, too,struggle at times with mistakes. They, too, agonize over how to fix them. They,too, need grace and prayer.In the end, he settled on this phrasing: "I think it is fair to say that thechild abuse issue has not always been handled well by the church. Today I prayfor all victims of abuse, their families and the Church. Amidst our shared pain,we gather in hope and prayer and, yes, the spirit of the Resurrection."And after a few more days of reflection, Enzler has decided that he must alsofind a way to address the issue in his Easter homily. He knows Easter will drawone of the year's biggest turnouts -- as many as 4,500 at his large, activeparish. The crowd will include Catholics he sees only once or twice a year,those at the edge of their faith, floundering and questioning the Church."They are the ones I worry about most," he said in his office this week. "Theyare the ones who most need to hear that, yes, as a Church, we are far fromperfect, but there is an honest, concerted effort to address this."And so, with Easter near, he sits in his study, deep in the recesses of thechurch, praying that the right words will come.For more on religion, go to http://www.washingtonpost.com/onfaith.