Roethlisberger will be disciplinedThe Pittsburgh Steelers are poised to take disciplinary action against theirtwo-time Super Bowl-winning quarterback, Ben Roethlisberger, for his off-fieldbehavior but plan to work cooperatively with NFL Commissioner Roger Goodell todetermine the details of that penalty before it is announced, team President ArtRooney II said Thursday."There will only be one disciplinary action and it will be coordinated with thecommissioner," Rooney said at an afternoon news conference. "And so when we getto the point where we have agreed with the commissioner on what that action willbe, that's when it will be imposed."Rooney said he didn't expect the disciplinary action to be announced until afterthe NFL draft. He said he also believes that Roethlisberger will be willing toaccept whatever action is taken."We believe each of our players not only has a responsibility to live up to thehighest standards on the field, but also to equally high standards off thefield," Rooney said. "Receiving the support of Pittsburgh Steeler fans all overthe world is something that must be earned. I made it clear to Ben that hisconduct in this incident did not live up to our standards. We made it very clearto Ben that there will be consequences for his actions. And Ben has indicated tous that he's willing to accept those consequences."The Steelers' pronouncement came as further details of the case in Georgiainvolving Roethlisberger emerged from documents released by authorities.According to the Associated Press, the woman told police that afterRoethlisberger had told her and her friends to consume shots of alcohol, she wasled into a hallway by one of Roethlisberger's bodyguards and put on a stool. Thebodyguard left and Roethlisberger walked down the hallway and exposed himself,according to the woman's account. The woman told investigators she toldRoethlisberger no and entered a bathroom but he followed her and closed thedoor. "I still said no, this is not okay, and he then had sex with me," thewoman said, according to the AP.Rooney declined to discuss details of the pending disciplinary action, butseveral people familiar with the deliberations said a suspension of two to fourgames is possible.A club can suspend a player for as many as four games without pay for conductdetrimental to the team, under the collective bargaining agreement.The league's personal conduct policy gives Goodell the authority to discipline aplayer, including imposing a suspension, for conduct detrimental to the league,even if the player is not convicted of a crime.Roethlisberger met with Goodell for approximately two hours on Tuesday in NewYork, a day after a district attorney in Georgia announced that he would notcharge Roethlisberger with a crime based on a sexual assault allegation againstRoethlisberger made last month by a 20-year-old woman.Roethlisberger also was accused in a civil lawsuit by a woman in Nevada ofsexually assaulting her in a Lake Tahoe hotel room in 2008. Roethlisbergerdenied that allegation and has not been charged with a crime."As far as the timing of any disciplinary action, the commissioner told me thathe would like to take at least a couple of weeks for further review of thematter," Rooney said. "So I don't expect that we'll be announcing any finaldecision until the week after the draft at the earliest. "-- Mark Maske