Steve Jobs, Apple's visionary founder, resigned as chief executive. In a letterto the board, he said: "I have always said if there ever came a day when I couldno longer meet my duties and expectations as Apple's CEO, I would be the firstto let you know. Unfortunately, that day has come." In past years, Jobs has beentreated for a rare form of pancreatic cancer. Chief operating officer Tim Cookwill lead the company. Jobs will stay on as Apple employee and chairman, the No.2 job. Apple's shares dropped 5.13 percent to $344.70 on the news. They closedthe week at $383.58.BusinessGoogle agreed to pay $500 million to the government to avoid prosecution oncharges that it accepted illegal ads from online pharmacies.Research in Motion will charge $4.99 a month for a music service on theBlackBerry that allows users to share songs through instant messaging, in a bidto draw users from rival Apple.BP and the Coast Guard returned to the scene of last year's Deepwater Horizondisaster after reports of numerous oily blobs rising to the surface of the Gulfof Mexico a mile from the site. BP planned to send a robotic submersible toexamine the blown-out well that was cemented after the worst oil spill in U.S.history.http://www.washingtonpost.com/wp-srv/gulf-coast-oil-spill/" title="www.washingtonpost.comhttp://www.washingtonpost.com/wp-srv/gulf-coast-oil-spill/"title="www.washingtonpost.comPentagon Federal Credit Union said that it iseliminating all ATM surcharges on military installations worldwide, effectiveSept. 1.Ford Motor, General Motors, Chrysler Group and other auto companies have addedalmost 90,000 manufacturing jobs in two years, a 14 percent increase, accordingto federal employment data.Ford and Toyota plan to collaborate and develop a hybrid system for pickuptrucks and sport-utility vehicles as U.S. fuel economy rules tighten.Former New York governor Eliot L. Spitzer was hit with two libel lawsuitsseeking $90 million by former Marsh & McLennan executives over a column on Slateabout an insurance bid-rigging scandal. Slate's parent, Slate Group, is adefendant in both cases. It is owned by The Washington Post Co.Goldman Sachs shares fell sharply on the news that chief executive LloydBlankfein has hired a top Washington defense lawyer. Blankfein and other topexecutives at Goldman Sachs are facing inquiries from the Justice Department andother agencies on the firm's practices leading up to the financial crisis.UBS will cut more than 5 percent of its work force, or 3,500 jobs.Groupon, after aggressive expansion in China in recent months, closed theoffices  and dismissed hundreds of workers.Hewlett-Packard will discontinue its TouchPad tablet and all WebOS devices.Sprint Nextel will begin selling the iPhone in October.Verizon workers, threatened with the immediate loss of benefits, called off a15-day strike and contract talks resumed.Kraft Foodsis lowering its U.S. coffee prices by about 6 percent.DealsDuke Energy said its purchase of North Carolina rival Progress Energy is ontrack to close by year's end after shareholders of both companies voted in favorof the deal, valued at $13.7 billion when it was announced in January.EconomyFederal Reserve chief Ben S. Bernanke said the central bank still has tools tostimulate the economy without providing details or signaling when - or whether -policymakers might deploy them.Sales of new homes fell for the third straight month in July, a sign thathousing remains a drag on the economy. If the pace continues, 2011 would be theworst year for new-home sales on record, dating back at least half a century.U.S. banks boosted lending in the second quarter - the first increase in threeyears.Moody's Investors Service downgraded Japan's credit rating, citing the country'sweak growth prospects, massive government debt and political turmoil.WashingtonThe Treasury Department recovered roughly $900 million during the first sixmonths of the year from sales of warrants it received from bailed-out financialcompanies to offset losses from the Wall Street rescue program.The FCC abolished the much-criticized "Fairness Doctrine" requiring broadcastersto present opposing views of controversial issues. The regulation wasimplemented in 1949 but hasn't been enforced in two decades.SEC asked oil and gas companies for details on their use of fracking, acontroversial drilling process used to access natural gas.Regulators sought more detail from AT&T about why it seeks to acquire T-Mobilein a $39 billion deal. A disclosure accidentally released by lawyers suggestedit could expand its wireless service to most Americans for a fraction of thepurchase price.TransitionsStandard & Poor's will replace President Deven Sharma with Citibank chiefoperating officer Douglas Peterson.Sexual-assault charges against former IMF chief Dominique Strauss-Kahn weredismissed.Iris the orangutan at the National Zoo appeared to be among the first to sense amagnitude 5.8 earthquake rumbling toward Washington. Within a minute of thequake in Mineral, Va., there were more than 40,000 quake-related tweets,according to Twitter.- From news services and staff reports