News that appeared Nov. 1 to 7 in The Washington Post and on washingtonpost.comthat is of interest to readers in Prince William.Tuesday 3Boarding schools offer solutions for local familiesFor a small but growing group of families, the solution to a frenzied lifestyleis a boarding school. "The traffic, particularly during the times that the kidsneed your attention, is ridiculous," said Sean Woo, who sends his two sons toSt. Albans School in the District. For Marshall Forney Jr., a sophomore at St.Albans, boarding has cut the commute to class to mere seconds. As a day student,Forney's commute from Dale City to the District would take an hour and 15minutes, inching along Interstate 95. "And you're not that far from your lovedones," he said.Wednesday 4Forest Park High teens died in an apparent suicide pactDesiree Patrick, 17, and Quirinius Williams, 18, were found dead in Patrick'sTriangle home on Monday in what police believe was a suicide pact. The twoForest Park High School students, who apparently died from gunshot wounds, haddated but had been asked by their parents to stop seeing each other. Althoughtheir deaths remain a mystery, Officer Erika Hernandez, a Prince William Countypolice spokeswoman, said the department's investigation "reveals that bothsubjects agreed to commit suicide."Thursday 5High-speed collision on I-95 kills Woodbridge manA Woodbridge man died about 2:15 a.m. Thursday in a traffic accident onInterstate 95, according to Virginia State Police. Tomell Grady, 26, was drivingat a "high rate of speed" when his Hyundai hit the back of a tractor-trailer.The driver of the tractor-trailer was uninjured. State police shut down theroadway for about three hours to investigate the accident.15-year-old is charged with assaulting five womenA 15-year-old Manassas youth has been arrested and charged with attacking fivewomen since August in the Coverstone Drive area of Manassas. Prince WilliamCounty police have charged him with three counts of abduction, five counts ofmalicious wounding, one count of sexual battery and one count of attempted rape.Friday 6Amtrak loses VRE contract to French subsidiaryAfter 17 years, Amtrak lost its contract with Virginia Railway Express when theNorthern Virginia and Potomac and Rappahannock transportation commissions votedThursday to award a five-year, $85.7 million contract to Keolis Rail ServicesAmerica, a U.S. subsidiary of a French company. "One firm went above andbeyond," PRTC member Matt Kelly said. "I think Keolis really wanted thiscontract, and Amtrak expected the contract." Amtrak's contract will end July 1.Mental health hearing set for mother held in deathA Prince William County judge ordered a mental health evaluation for AlfreediaL. Gregg-Glover, 45, who pleaded guilty to abusing and killing her adopteddaughter, 13-year-old Alexis "Lexie" Agyepong-Glover, and of lying to policeabout it. Defense attorney John V. Notarianni asked for the evaluation after anurse at the county jail expressed concerns about Gregg-Glover's mental health.For information about these and other articles, visit http://www.washingtonpost.com/princewilliam.