There are few human beings as charmed as the graduating university Wunderkind,cloaked as he is in his laurels and jobs offers, giving off the whiff ofpotential and prospects unlimited. Others stare at him--or her--and feel nosmall envy.He is Mount Vernon area-raised Leslie Williams--by turn honors engineeringstudent, thespian, racial conciliator, community mentor and tutor, campusadviser and tutor to black freshmen, Rhodes Scholar nominee--now about toreceive his degree from the University of Virginia and set off for Dearborn,Mich., and Ford Motor Co. Maybe he'll run the place, muses the 21-year-oldWilliams, unless his acting career takes off, which, he thinks, would be evenbetter.She is Anna Robertson--a product of Arlington and the precocious creator of amonthly online magazine at the University of Virginia calledtheangle.com--hopeful now that CBS News is poised upon her graduation Sunday toask her to join its news desk in New York.Robertson lives in one of the suites on U-Va.'s venerated Lawn, part of ThomasJefferson's original academic village and a location reserved nowadays for 54 ofthe Charlottesville university's highest-achieving seniors. There the digs aresteeped in status, if short on amenities: Occupants must walk outside to findbathrooms. Ralph Sampson, the school's basketball legend, lived there once; sodid NBC "Today" show anchor Katie Couric, Class of '79.The ambitious television woman from the Class of '00 has traveled much the samepath as Couric: Robertson graduated from Arlington's Yorktown High, the schoolthat nurtured Couric, and, like the TV star, found her way into U-Va.'s AmericanStudies program. "The joke is I'm trying to stalk her," Robertson says, sighinga little.Robertson, who created a school newspaper as a fourth-grader, has interned atCBS News, ABC.com and washingtonpost.com, where she came up with her plan for anonline campus magazine. Now affiliated with washingtonpost.com, theangle.comcombines news with interactive discussion, a photo gallery, animation andfirst-person accounts from those at the center of public dilemmas."I just thought that we needed something fresh at the university that reflectedchanges occurring in society," Robertson said of theangle's 1998 inception. "Ithought at first that what we'd get were all tech nerds. But the response wasunbelievable."Guided by Robertson, who has several volunteer Web designers and 20 writersworking under her, a recent issue of the magazine trained its eyes on a campaignto fight sexual assault on and around campus. The rally, dubbed "Take Back theNight," spurred theangle to produce not only coverage of the event but storiesfrom assault victims and a list of hot lines.Robertson has drawn the attention of university publicists, who distributeglowing news releases about her. "We're looking at the future of journalism" inher, said a statement from senior lecturer William Fishback, who teaches newswriting. "Anna has led the way here in using technology to bring in a newgeneration of news readers."While aspiring to make a mark in TV news, Robertson believes that the dramaticchanges in her life are likely the harbingers of other shifts that she can'tforesee. "It's hard to be sure what will happen," she says. "I'm looking towardTV, but the Internet is merging into TV, so everything could be different. . . .Actually, I'm kind of disillusioned by the way entertainment is taking overnews. But I think there's a way there of doing the news through strong stories."If she needs another one, her classmate Les Williams is a good story. A discipleof discipline who left Thomas Jefferson High School for science and technologywith advanced placement credits in calculus and chemistry, Williams spent hisfirst two years at U-Va. quietly excelling and building a strong grade-pointaverage in tough engineering courses.It's paid off. This spring, he received the Virginia Engineering Foundation'sOutstanding Student Award, having already been tapped a Rodman Scholar in theEngineering Department."I had a plan," Williams says. "I told myself I would do very well the first twoyears so that I would feel comfortable branching out and doing other things oncampus the last two years."And then he makes a happy sound that on paper translates this way:"Yeaaaaahhhhhh."Williams has what Hollywood agents refer to as "presence." He can deliver a linelike "For more, count on Les" and make it sound glibly charming. He is astrapping 6-foot-2, with a broad smile, a firm handshake, a nice touch ofself-deprecating humor, and an inclination toward the unpredictable, absurd andfunny--especially when probing society's touchiest subjects.Dismayed by what he regarded as a division over affirmative action and a growingracial self-segregation on campus ("We have whites over here, blacks over there,and Asian Americans somewhere else," he says), Williams helped organize anannual forum on race titled "Reflection on Complexion." Characteristically, heplays down his efforts: "A friend who was putting it together said he neededsomebody with a crazy sense of humor like me to be one of the moderators of thediscussion, so I said sure. That's me."The fliers advertising the discussion were not sober or genteel or P.C., becausesober and genteel aren't Williams's style. He skirts the lines of tastes. So onemorning in 1998, Virginia students discovered fliers all over campus with deeplyphilosophical questions that ran along these lines: "Why do all white peopledrive Jeep Cherokees?" "Are there any 7-Eleven stores in India?" "Ebonics: Whatthat is?"The reaction was immediate: "Most people thought it was hysterical, so theycouldn't wait to come to the forums," Williams remembers.Williams shows up at the packed forums wearing his bright orange-and-blue Dr.Seuss hat. "Nobody can get too wild when they're talking to a guy wearing a Dr.Seuss hat," he observed. "It reduces the tension. When somebody would startgetting intense, I'd say, 'If you're gonna be that way, wear the hat, so you'lllook less violent.' It'd get a laugh, and then we could actually get people tounderstand each other a little better."As a tribute to his work, Williams is receiving the university's Algernon SydneySullivan Award, an honor recognizing "service to humanity and excellence ofcharacter."The service has been nonstop for two years. In his junior year, during the sameterm he carried 18 units of courses that included "Fluid Mechanics" and"Elementary Applied Partial Differential Equations," he co-founded BrothersUnited Celebrating Knowledge and Success (BUCKS), which has led an effort inCharlottesville to assist African American youths. Buoyed by aid from cityofficials, Williams and other BUCKS members tutor at computer labs in threelow-income housing complexes.It was the same year Williams learned to live on four hours of sleep a night. Heserved as a student adviser to black freshman engineering students. He won thepart of Mercutio in a student production of "Romeo and Juliet" that, whileremaining faithful to Shakespeare's dialogue, gave birth to new themes,presenting the feuding families as divided along racial lines, bent on stoppinginterracial dating and preserving their bastions of segregation. CBS News was sointrigued it sent a film crew to interview Williams and trail him around campus.He breathes the oxygen of a new dream now."I'm going to find a theater in Detroit where I can develop my acting," he says."Acting's my long-term plan now. My job at Ford will pay the bills." He sits ina restaurant, looks up and, as if hearing his words floating in the air, laughsloudly at himself. "On the other hand, if it doesn't work out, I'll run Ford."Like Anna Robertson, he sees nothing beyond his grasp. It is what the old envymost.