When the principal of a well-regarded Bethesda middle school learned that kidshad bought and sold sexual images of girls who were said to have willingly posedfor them, he called in the Montgomery County police to investigate.Pyle Middle School Principal Michael J. Zarchin had no choice but to bring inauthorities to see whether any laws had been broken.But that doesn't mean the kids should have the legal book thrown at them. Thisshould be handled outside the law.  Of course there should be  consequences, butthese young people are not criminals.In  a culture with sexually explicit images everywhere, there is no consensusabout how to deal with young people who sext.In many states, kids who send or receive sexually explicit photos or videos bycellphone or computer risk being declared sex offenders -- a label that willaffect them the rest of their lives -- and charged with child pornography,according to a recent New York Times article.Last year, Nebraska, Utah and Vermont reduced the penalties for sexting, andmore than a dozen states are considering doing so. Nebraska, for example,differentiates between sexting activities: There's no penalty for kids youngerthan  18 who send their own sexually explicit picture to a recipient who wantsto receive it and is at least 15 years old. But a teen who then forwards theimage to other people can face child pornography charges, a felony that canbring five years in prison if the teen is convicted.With thousands of kids sexting every day, it doesn't make much sense tocriminalize all of them.Rosalind Wiseman, who spent months researching the subject for a recent articlein "Family Circle," said she believes sexting is more common than  statisticssuggest -- and even those show that it is widespread. In 2008, the NationalCampaign to Prevent Teen and Unplanned Pregnancy found that 20 percent of kids13 to 19 had sent partially or completely nude pictures of themselves or someonethey knew."I don't think it's possible to walk down the hallway [of many schools] todayand not see a naked picture of someone [on a student's cellphone]," she told me.Parents, she said, have to stop burying their heads in the sand. They shouldtalk plainly with their children about why sending these pictures is wrong andwhy forwarding them is just as bad or worse."Parents should tell kids: 'Even if you get it and send it, I'm going toconsider you responsible for the humiliation of another individual.' "And parents should reconsider allowing kids to have cellphones, certainly atnight. That's when a lot of inappropriate material is sent."I say to parents: 'Tell your child that the use of a cellphone is a privilegeand not a right. Use it as an extension of our family values. If you use it tohumiliate someone, I take it away.' "Cellphone manufacturers should reintroduce phones without cameras. Kids don'treally need them. And parents should not be shy about checking out what theirkids are doing online.It is often useful for kids to learn from their mistakes. Sometimes, though,it's better to stop them from making mistakes that will haunt them.