Dear Carolyn:My friend is in trouble. I am 14, and she just turned 13. She has a 16-year-oldbrother who has friends over all the time. They have on several occasions pinnedher to the floor and touched her while her brother just watches. One of themeven cornered her at a dance, pulled her out back, and basically raped her. Theboys have threatened to hurt her if she tells her parents. The only reason Iknow about this is because I promised not to tell a soul, and she needed someoneto turn to. But I think someone should know. What should I/she do?-- Concerned in CaliforniaBreak your promise, immediately, and tell your parents. You can warn your friendof this ahead of time, but only if you promise (unbreakable) that you won't lether talk you out of it. These guys are already hurting her, badly, in ways thatmay haunt her decades from now by interfering with her ability to form healthyrelationships. She direly needs adult help, and probably counseling -- and sheneeds your help in getting both. You seem pretty brave, but with lifting thisheavy, it couldn't hurt to get an assist. Call the Rape, Abuse & Incest NationalNetwork's sexual assault hotline: 1-800-656-HOPE. Please. Now.Hi Carolyn:My sister is losing it. I'm going to change the names to protect the stupid, butthis is it in a nutshell: Stella is just out of college, and moved in with me toget started in the world and find a job. She is madly in love with Bob, the dud,who's in his senior year a few states away. They talk on the phone ENDLESSLYabout nothing -- "Baby! I miss you. What? What?" -- and all the money she spendson travel and phone bills is defeating the purpose of moving in with me. But herobsession isn't the worst part.Bob is not going anywhere. He lived near campus all summer, and didn't "find" ajob until the end of September. His family history is less than perfect, as istrue for most human beings, but I believe there's a pattern of emotional andphysical abuse there. He is irresponsible -- he and his roommate allowed theirphone to be cut off because they didn't pay the bill. Stella used to be the lifeof the party with her pick of beaux, and now she doesn't want to do anything butcomplain about her entry-level job and talk to Bob. She lies on the sofa wrappedin a blanket and watches TV. Her depression is contagious -- it isn't pleasantto be with such a bum all the time. My parents and I make no secret of ourdislike for this Bob person, and we encourage her to participate in activitiesand be around other people, but she doesn't hear any of it. What can we do toget back the girl we knew?-- Somewhere in Never-Never LandI hear Back-Off Land is lovely this time of year, the ideal getaway. Or is itgoaway. Either way, my treat.Stella's in a funk. Poor Stella. And poor you, and poor parents. It's tough towatch someone struggle, and tougher still to know whether to help and how.Of course, the wanting-to-help part is hypothetical here, because it sounds likeyou blew right past it in favor of theattempting-to-get-rid-of-Bob-and-in-the-meantime-making-savagely-funny-sport-of-their-phone-conversations stage -- as if Stella were perfection itself untilthis BOB person swept in and bought her soul or ate her brain or whatever it isthat outraged families accuse bad mates of doing to their wayward loved ones.One problem. The undeniable (undenialable?) truth about this and every couple onearth is that it consists of two people. Bob chose Stella. Stella chose Bob.Either Stella is stellar or Bob is human putrefaction, but both can't be true atthe same time.Your accepting that would do her, and you, a lot more good than hurlingthoughtless blame at the Bob. Perhaps his family history caused serious problems-- (and a disconnected phone, egads!) -- but then Stella must have them, too, tosome degree, to make him attractive to her.Or he and your sib are both just a bit lost and a lot young -- not to mention,wild guess here, in no mood to reckon with unmet familial expectations. Whichbrings us back to Back-Off Land. People in similar emotional phases have a wayof finding each other, and of hanging on white-knuckled if that phase is a roughone. Add immaturity and disapproval, and those knuckles turn to highlyrebellious steel.So you let go. Even if Bob is Satan, he's merely a symptom, a reflection ofStella right now. Either help her address the depression or give her room tohelp herself. And a little faith already: You, presumably, weren't born to animpeccably run adulthood, so trust her to find her way, too.Write to Tell Me About It, Style Plus, 1150 15th St. NW, Washington, D.C. 20071or tellme@washpost.com, and join Carolyn's live discussion at noon Fridays or 3p.m. Mondays at washingtonpost.com/liveonline