PITTSBURGH - As Jim Boeheim walked across the court Saturday afternoon at ConsolEnergy Center to do his obligatory postgame TV interview, he let out a deepbreath, stuck his hands in his pockets and looked for all the world like someonewho had just spent most of the day in a dentist's chair.A few minutes later, when the news conference moderator informed reporters thatSyracuse's 75-59 victory over Kansas State in the round of 32 gave Boeheim 47NCAA tournament victories - tying him with John Wooden on the all-time list -Boeheim sighed and shook his head."Yeah he did it in 10 years; it took 29 for me," he said. "That's about rightfor me."If Eeyore was a basketball coach, he would be Jim Boeheim. Especially thesedays.In private, Boeheim is about as bright, funny and engaging as anyone inbasketball. He has also put together coaching numbers that are astounding,regardless of how many years it has taken him to achieve them. Saturday'svictory was the 889th of his career and put him in the Sweet 16 for the 16thtime. The only coaches in history with more wins than Boeheim are MikeKrzyzewski at 927 and Bob Knight at 902.What's more, the argument can be made that at the age of 67, Boeheim is a bettercoach now than he's ever been. This Syracuse team is 33-2 and, as Boeheim pointsout, has found different ways to win all season.None of that, though, is the focal point when people talk about Syracuse rightnow, and it hasn't been since late last fall when Bernie Fine, Boeheim'slongtime assistant and close friend, was forced to resign after being accused ofsexual abuse by two former Syracuse ballboys.It is fair to say that Boeheim, in spite of all his team's victories, has hadvery few moments of peace since then. He came out swinging at Fine's accusersand then had to apologize, even though he no doubt still believes every word hesaid. Now Boeheim is completely gagged by his lawyers on the subject, but thatdoesn't mean he isn't waging battles on other fronts.He's had to answer questions about a report that a number of ex-Syracuse playerstested positive for recreational drugs several years ago and were neversubjected to the school's rules on drug use. Then starting center Fab Melo wasdeclared ineligible for the second time this season just before the NCAAtournament began.A day later, Secretary of Education Arne Duncan, talking about NCAA graduationrates, appeared to single out Boeheim when he mentioned that one college coachhad called the idea of penalizing schools for failing to graduate players"completely nuts."Boeheim took umbrage with Duncan's comments on Friday - saying he had called twoelements of the graduation rate standards nuts, but not the idea itself - andwas also upset with _blanka USA Today story that said if the new standards werein place this season, Syracuse would not have been eligible to play. "Not true,"Boeheim said. "They're using outdated statistics. If they'd have called us wecould have told them that."And of course, there was the controversial ending to _blankThursday'sfirst-round victory over UNC Asheville. Boeheim didn't mind seeing severalthousand replays of a pass that clearly went off Brandon Triche's hands but wasawarded to Syracuse anyway - although he did say he thought Triche had beenfouled. He did mind several TV commentators criticizing a lane-violation callmade against Asheville at a crucial moment in the game."TV commentators do a disservice to the game when they say, 'You can't callthat,' " Boeheim said, standing in the bowels of the building 45 minutes afterhis team's win on Saturday. No one had raised the issue. Boeheim did. "It's arule. You have to call it. A violation is a violation."Saturday was a good day for Boeheim. After struggling to a 25-24 lead athalftime even though Kansas State shot just 8 of 34, the Orange pulled away inthe second half for an easy win - far easier than one might have expected afterThursday's escape from the ignominy of being the first No. 1 seed to ever loseto a No. 16 seed."We made some shots for the first time in a while," Boeheim said. "The gamebecomes pretty simple when you make shots. Of course, the key was our defense."The key for Syracuse is always its defense, the remarkably elastic 2-3 zone ithas played since 1996 - when Boeheim took a team picked to do very little in thepreseason all the way to the national championship game. Even without Melo inthe middle, the Orange are still a collection of long arms and legs inside andstill have nine players who can come in and play effectively.Boeheim realized early this season that this was probably the deepest team hehas ever coached. He even changed his practice routine, working his first fiveand his second five alternatively against his third five - a group that includesa redshirt and four walk-ons. "That third group is in really good shape," hesaid, almost smiling for a moment. "I've never done it that way before butchange is good - especially when you're getting older."There's been a lot of talk about whether Boeheim will just walk away after thisseason, especially if his team wins the championship or reaches the Final Four.His close friend Krzyzewski - who is no doubt a lot unhappier than Boeheim, atleast this weekend - doesn't think there is any way that will happen."They'll have to drag Jim off the sideline," he said recently. "He's not goinganywhere. He loves basketball and he loves coaching."Boeheim disagrees with even with that. "I have never enjoyed coaching," he said."I hope someday if I need an operation, when that doctor walks into theoperating room he's not there to enjoy himself."What about after the operation is a success?For a moment he did actually smile. "If you have success, then you'resatisfied," he said. "That's completely different." He paused for a moment. "Iguess if you win a lot and you get a lot of satisfaction from the wins thenmaybe - maybe - you can enjoy it just a little."He was laughing by now, something he hasn't done much the last few months. Thebus was waiting. He walked down the hall and out the door. Another victory wasin his rear-view mirror.No doubt there are plenty of battles still ahead.For John Feinstein's previous columns, go to washingtonpost.com/feinstein. Formore by the author, visit his blog at www.feinsteinonthebrink.com.