A flesh-baring swim in the Sea of Galilee last year earned Rep. Kevin Yoder(R-Kan.) a rebuke from House leaders. But he http://www.washingtonpost.com/national/kansas-rep-apologizes-for-nude-dip-in-holy-sea/2012/08/21/8c006c6c-2b93-4304-89b2-46c34b35df4a_video.htmlgot support from the American Association forNude Recreation ("The credible voice of reason for nude recreation since 1931")."Congressman Yoder is a typical American who enjoys skinny-dipping," the AANRsays in a news release. The nudist lobby says Yoder's antics may help its causeof promoting nude recreation."Overall, the reaction's been mostly positive," said Tom Mulhall, the AANR'spublic relations chairman and the owner of the Terra Cotta Inn, aclothing-optional resort in Palm Springs.The AANR's release lists American presidents purported to have enjoyed a nudesplash: John Quincy Adams, Teddy Roosevelt, John F. Kennedy, Lyndon Johnson andGeorge W. Bush. (Bush's supposed bare romp was technically in a sauna, not abody of water, but we're not quibbling.)"President Johnson even went skinny-dipping while in office with evangelistBilly Graham," the group reports. Sadly, we have no photos.Apply now!Desperate for that post-election call from President Obama or President Romneyoffering you a senior administration job?Are you ready to spend countless hours filling out multiple questionnaires - notto mention thousands of dollars on an accountant to help with your financialdisclosure forms?Don't despair. There are signs that some rationality may prevail on the absurdand endless paperwork for nominees, a mindless one-size-fits-all formula - oneform for the covert-ops chief at CIA, the same one for the assistant secretaryof commerce for widget production.A bipartisan bill that became law earlier this month streamlines or reducesconfirmation requirements for about 30 percent of the positions now needingcommittee hearings and Senate floor votes.That should ensure that incoming department heads no longer have that "homealone" problem for weeks or often months waiting for their deputies.The new law also establishes a "Working Group on Streamlining Paperwork forExecutive Nominations."True, these "committees-to-study" most always amount to little more thancan-kickers. Still, there's a bipartisan Senate bloc - from the top leadershipdown - actually committed to improving the system. (That's how the bill passedthe Senate 79 to 20 in the first place.)The working group includes folks from White House personnel, the Office ofPersonnel Management, the FBI and the Office of Government Ethicsas well asofficials from prior administrations and, one would presume, some people withstrong ties to both parties in the Senate.One goal is to develop a "smart form" that all nominees would fill out withbasic data that would be used by both the Senate and the White House. (Nomineesnow have to provide duplicate information on different sets of forms.)Another goal is to accelerate background investigations, which can take fourmonths or more, by seeing whether "non-FBI personnel" can be used to conductmost checks.The legislation asks the working group to explore ways to vary background checks"depending on the sensitivity of the position." So a narrower check on thewidget producer, a broader one for intelligence chiefs.And the group is to develop an "electronic system" for collecting anddistributing information on nominees.The system is so cumbersome now because everyone involved is afraid they mayfind out that their nominee for immigration enforcement has a "nanny problem" orthat the nominee for tax compliance owes back taxes.It's gotten to the point where "risk avoidance has become more costly than therisk you're trying to avoid," observed Max Stier, president of the Partnershipfor Public Service. The need is to "manage risk, not avoid risk," he said. "Youcan't avoid risk."The guy worked where?President Obama's campaign just loves to refer to Mitt Romney's tenure at BainCapital. It has made plenty of hay out of the Republican presidentialcandidate's time with the company (home of the "vulture capitalists"!) andmentions it at every opporunity. Except one.The White House dared not utter the B-word when Obama named Boris Bershteyntostep in to head the Office of Information and Regulatory Affairs, andBershteyn's officialhttp://www.washingtonpost.com/cass-sunstein-top-obama-adviser-on-regulations-to-leave-administration/2012/08/03/5652b6fc-dd6a-11e1-8e43-4a3c4375504a_story.html bio makes no mention ofBershteyn's time at the consulting firm Bain & Co. That's where Romney workedbefore founding the spinoff private-equity firm Bain Capital.According to his LinkedIn profile, Bershteyn was an associate consultant at Bain& Co. in the early 2000s, before he got his Yale law degree.An Office of Management and Budget spokeswoman noted the distinction betweenBain & Co. and Bain Capital and pointed out that Bershteyn's time at Bain wasearly in his career. She also said the official bio highlights Bershteyn's legalexperience, not his consulting background - and so, apparently, it was left offfor editing reasons, not political ones.Still, the Bain connection has some chuckling about how anyone with a stint atBain on his or her rsum is probably not highlighting it at the moment. Ribbingis inevitable."He seems like a perfect regulatory czar - in a Romney White House," quips CleanAir Watch President Frank O'Donnell.Peace outPeace Corps Director Aaron Williams announced his resignation Tuesday, citingthe standard "personal and family considerations." In a statement, Obama praisedhis efforts "reforming and modernizing the agency" and called him "a champion ofthe thousands of remarkable Peace Corps Volunteers serving across the globe."Williams's three-year tenure was marred by criticism of the agency's handling ofsexual assaults against volunteers, though we hear his decision to leave caughtmany in the agency by surprise.With Emily Heilkamena@washpost.comThe blog: washingtonpost.com/intheloop. Twitter: @InTheLoopWP.