If you need more evidence that much of the U.S. military treats sexual assaultlike one big frat-house joke, look no further than what allegedly happenedoutside a Crystal City bar in the early morning hours of Cinco de Mayo.That's where the 41-year-old lieutenant colonel in charge of the Air Force'sprogram to prevent sexual assaults allegedly groped a woman's breasts andbuttocks in a parking lot.The Arlington County police report said he was drunk. And if you've beenwondering why he had cuts on his face in the police mug shot, a witness told methat the woman pulled out a cellphone and started hitting him with it.Lt. Col. Jeffrey Krusinski was "removed from his position immediately" when theAir Force learned of his arrest, an Air Force spokeswoman said. But thensomething revealing happened: The military tried to take the case away fromArlington authorities.Defense Department officials asked the Arlington commonwealth's attorney, TheoStamos, to just turn it over to them. Don't bother with your little county courtstuff. Why don't you just let us handle our boy over here at the Pentagon?But Stamos, to her credit, refused."They did ask that we relinquish prosecution, and we didn't," said Stamos, whohas spent a career working just beyond the Pentagon's doorstep."Obviously, being where we are in Arlington, we have to prosecute members of themilitary routinely," Stamos said. But this was the first time in her two decadesas a prosecutor that the military asked for a case, and she was surprised by therequest.The case was on her turf.It had been a slow night in Arlington: a stolen Buick LaSabre and a burglary inwhich a Dell laptop, a gold ring and $60 were taken. So cops responded quicklywhen the woman called for help about 12:30 a.m. Sunday.Cpl. Geoffrey Gammell of the Arlington police arrived, a man as beefy andclose-cropped as Krusinski, and treated the incident with the seriousness itdeserved. He booked Krusinski on a misdemeanor charge of sexual battery. Ifconvicted, Krusinski faces up to a year in prison.Krusinski declined to comment on the case when approached after his arraignmentThursday in Arlington County General District Court.Some people say Krusinski is a familiar figure along a faded strip ofrestaurants and pubs in Arlington. It's walking distance from the Pentagon andhis apartment. One waitress I interviewed recognized his booking mug right away:"Oh, he's the one who orders just sausages" when he's been drinking."He's nice!" she said. "I feel bad for him."Krusinski, an Air Force Academy graduate with lots of military medals, a$132,000-a-year salary and no public record of lawbreaking, is a guy who uses apicture of a football field as his Facebook profile photo, stays in touch withhis high school wrestling buddies from Ohio, and lists sports pubs and MalcolmGladwell books as Facebook "likes."At one of his "liked" bars in Arlington, the folks said he's a regular. He'sknown as a nice guy, no problems. At another, the bartender told me I had totalk to the owner when I asked her if she knows Krusinski.One of her customers - a guy with his federal identification badge hanging fromhis neck, a pint in front of him and an unlit cig dangling from his lips - threwhis head back and laughed. "As your personal, public affairs specialist, I say:Well played," he told the bartender.The owner, who offered a friendly handshake and a bright smile, said he'd neverseen Krusinski there.The person I really want to talk to is the woman who smacked him with hercellphone. (The witness to the incident asked not to be identified.) She's mynew hero. His rank didn't matter one bit to her, if she was even aware of it.But that kind of assertiveness hasn't been celebrated in the armed services.Military women brave enough to denounce their attackers have often been ignoredor even punished. And the lax attitude toward sex offenses may not be limited tomen, either.The day after Krusinski's arrest, we learned that Air Force Lt. Gen Susan J.Helms, who is also an astronaut, had granted clemency this year to a captainconvicted of sexual assault. She explained in an internal memo that she foundthe captain's testimony more credible than his accuser's, The Washington Post'sCraig Whitlock reported. Her decision may cost her a promotion.A similar thing happened in February. Air Force Lt. Gen. Craig A. Franklintossed out a star fighter pilot's sexual-assault conviction and ordered hisrelease from prison. An Air Force spokesman said Franklin tossed out the juryverdict after reviewing the entire trial record and finding that the evidencedid not prove guilt beyond a reasonable doubt.As the Cinco de Mayo haze cleared on Siete de Mayo, the Pentagon released areport showing a 35 percent increase in the estimated number of militarypersonnel victimized by sexual assault and related crimes over two years. Ananonymous survey had found that 26,000 people - men and women - experienced"unwanted sexual contact" last year, up from about 19,300 in 2010.The Defense Department also recorded 3,374 reports of sexual assault in 2012,compared with 3,192 the previous year.Some studies estimate that only about 17 percent of military victims of sexoffenses report the attacks, making it difficult to know the extent of theproblem.The military needs to start taking this problem seriously, because it seems tokeep getting worse.Gammell was right to arrest Krusinski that night. And Stamos deserves kudos forrefusing to turn the case over to military investigators.Hey, Pentagon commanders: Look beyond that 395 freeway on-ramp, just past theMcDonald's and Macy's, and see how allegations of sexual assault ought to bedealt with. Like a potential crime.dvorakp@washpost.comTwitter: @petuladTo read previous columns, go to washingtonpost.com/dvorak.