The ACC put out a news release Friday announcing that the league has beenawarded the 2015 Naismith Legacy Award. According to the release, the award isgiven each year to individuals and organizations in basketball to "honor theirroles in furthering the values of honor, respect and integrity on and off thecourt."The timing of the announcement was fascinating. On the same day, the NCAA cameabout as close to throwing the book at Syracuse - now an ACC member - as it evercomes when a big-time program is accused of breaking the rules.Orange Coach Jim Boeheim woke up Friday morning second on the all-time DivisionI coaching list with 966 wins. By lunchtime, he was down to sixth after the NCAAstripped him of 108 wins, some of them dating from the 2004-05 season. (Ofcourse, the NCAA has been known to loudly announce that it is vacating coachingwins and then quietly announce "never mind" a few years later. See "Paterno,Joe.") And with or without those wins, Boeheim will have to sit out Syracuse'sfirst nine ACC games next season.The school also will lose three scholarships per year through 2019 - a fairlyminor hit since most schools don't need more than 10 scholarship players - andit will lose money from postseason play and be fined $500 for every game inwhich an ineligible player was on the court.Syracuse already had announced last month that it was voluntarily banning itselffrom all postseason play this year, meaning it won't be around next weekend atthe ACC tournament in Greensboro, N.C., when Commissioner John Swofford willaccept the Naismith award.When Syracuse announced its self-imposed ban, there were skeptics who saw themove as a preemptory move designed to bring the investigation to an end during adown year for the Orange. At best, Syracuse was an NCAA bubble team. Morelikely, it would have played in the NIT, which would have excited coaches,players and fans in Central New York almost as much as the prospect of a Marchsnowstorm.The move worked: The penalties are more embarrassing than substantive. Syracusewon't miss any TV time and will be eligible to play in next season's NCAAtournament. And then again, it didn't work: The NCAA pompously concluded theschool had to be penalized because it had "failed to monitor its athleticsprogram and its head basketball coach failed to monitor his program." InEnglish, this means there were academic issues, drug-testing issues and an issueinvolving a booster who was passing out money he shouldn't have been passingout.The real question is whether Boeheim, who turned 70 in November, wants to dealwith all of this going forward. In recent years, he has finally been recognizedas one of the deans of the sport. He was inducted into the Hall of Fame in 2005and has been Mike Krzyzewski's most trusted assistant with the U.S. nationalteam for the past 10 years.This certainly isn't the way he wants to go out. But the large blemishes of therecent past certainly have to blur his vision of the future.But Syracuse isn't the only ACC team making news that might not quite live up tothe Naismith Legacy Award. North Carolina is being investigated by the NCAAafter an independent investigator hired by the school concluded there had beenacademic fraud involving athletes - many of them basketball players - from 1993to 2011.No one knows what the NCAA will do with Carolina because the case is unique. Butthere is a lot of collective breath-holding going on throughout the state.And earlier in the week, the student newspaper at Duke broke a story reportingthat former basketball player Rasheed Sulaimon, who was booted from the team onJan. 29, had twice been accused of sexual assault during the 2013-14 academicyear. According to the story, Duke athletic officials, including Krzyzewski,knew about the accusations as early as last March.That story is not the grand cover-up the anti-Duke and anti-Krzyzewski factionswould like to see exposed; no one has filed any charges against Sulaimon, and hewas thrown off the team. Regardless, the incident probably won't come upSaturday during Swofford's acceptance speech.If the ACC can figure out a way to get a couple more schools into NCAA hotwater, it may be a candidate for the Nobel Peace Prize by the end of the year.There's also a not-so-minor basketball issue. With all the chest-beating theconference has done about how the additions of Syracuse, Pittsburgh, Notre Dameand Louisville have made it the best league this side of the NBA's WesternConference, here's a dirty little secret: An ACC team hasn't reached the FinalFour since 2010.The league was formed in 1953-54. From the 1962 season through 2010, the longestgap without at least one ACC team in the Final Four was two years. From 1981through 2010, it sent 27 teams to the Final Four, winning 11 national titles.Since North Carolina and Duke won back-to-back national titles in 2009 and 2010,the old Big East and the Southeastern Conference have sent four teams, the BigTen three and one apiece for the Big 12, Horizon League, Colonial AthleticAssociation, Missouri Valley and fledgling American Athletic Conference.Noticeably absent: the Pacific-12 and the ACC.The ACC now has 15 teams, which should increase the odds of getting a team toIndianapolis next month. Of course, it had 15 teams last season, and no onereached the Elite Eight - much less the Final Four. For a league that was builton basketball and expanded to its current bloated size to try to rebuildbasketball, four straight seasons without a Final Four team are embarrassing.Virginia should be a No. 1 seed on Selection Sunday. Duke appears no lower thana No. 2, and Notre Dame should be a No. 3 or 4 seed. Louisville and NorthCarolina also will be teams with a chance to go deep. But there's no guaranteeany of them will make it to Indianapolis.Then again, there's still hope: After all, Swofford will have that nice NaismithLegacy Award to put up on his office wall to look at while he's reading throughthe 94-page NCAA report on Syracuse. And who knows? Maybe this will be thespring that Maryland returns to the Final Four . . .Oh, wait. Never mind.sports@washpost.comFor more by John Feinstein, visit washingtonpost.com/feinstein.