Dear Carolyn:I am a high school senior fast approaching graduation and my 18th birthday. Ihave been seeing a girl, "June," since the beginning of the school year. She isbeautiful, smart, sweet and the best girlfriend I've ever had. Now comes the"but": June is a freshman and she is 14. Most people would think I am with herjust to take advantage of her, but this is not the case since we haven't had sexand I'm still a virgin by choice. We've talked about the situation for when Iturn 18 but there doesn't seem to be a conclusion. I'm confused because I don'tknow if it will work between us, since I'll be in college. And the law statesthat sex between an 18-year-old and someone four years younger is statutoryrape, and we have been getting more and more intimate as time goes on.I feel if I discontinue seeing her that I will be leaving her on a thread sincewe've grown so close emotionally, but I also feel that if I don't I will beopening the doors to more trouble. I won't be seeing her much next fall due tocollege in another county. Am I being a bad boyfriend by moving on with my life?-- MarylandThe "conclusion" for when you turn 18 is to keep your statutory pants on. Thelaw is the least of the reasons. She's 14, she's not ready for sex. Humor me,make your mouth form the words: N-N-NOT RED-DEE. Sex vaults a person onto awhole other level of knowledge and responsibility, and unless she has sufficientemotional and life experience to prepare her for it, the weight of it can becrushing. She's 14, she's only a fifth, even a sixth of the way through herlife. These are her lighter years, and she's entitled to them, and when they'regone they never come back, so get your mitts off them, please.At 14, she's also likely to be less sure of herself than you are, and thereforeless equipped to say no, and therefore you need to say it.And even if she were ready, which she isn't (stadium-loudspeaker version:NOT-not-not READY-ready-ready), you've got one foot out of the county and yourhormones are packing their bags. Whether you end it now or by fall or drag it toThanksgiving break, this jailbait joyride bears a striking resemblance to over.Many an excellent boyfriend has moved on with his life when appropriate. You getstripped of that title, though, if you allow yourselves -- allow her -- to getmuch more deeply entangled just as you head for the door.Dear Carolyn:I'm 22 and have known this guy for about seven months now. When we first startedto get to know each other, I thought it was just going to be a friendship-typething. But as time went on he seemed to get more touchy. Like putting his armaround me, or telling me that he missed me. When we went out one time I think hetried to kiss me but I freaked out and kinda weaseled my way out of it, I hopewithout hurting his feelings. I've never had a real boyfriend, and at the time Ijust didn't or couldn't believe that he'd be interested in me as a girlfriend.Now that we both have gotten busier and don't see each other as often, Iconstantly think about him. The last time we talked he told me how his friendswanted to set him up on a blind date, and he wasn't sure if he wanted to go ornot. All I said was, "Oh." Does he not have any more interest? Should I tell himhow I feel about him now, or do I just need a good kick in the head?-- CluelessIt is axiomatic that the people who need a kick in the head are the ones whofancy themselves to be kick-proof. So you're cool.But you're right, a clue wouldn't hurt. You may realize that it was yourinexperience-slash-insecurity that made you duck this guy's pucker, but unlessyou shared this fact with him, all he knows is that you ducked. Recoiled, even.He's still asking himself if he had halitosis for the ages or if you find himrepulsive in general.Acquiring a little self-esteem wouldn't hurt, either. You "couldn't believe"someone would like you? Wow. Therapy?Meanwhile, his blind-date question could very well have been a covertreconnaissance operation: He checks again to see if you have any interest atall, but without risking the humiliation of another calamitous air-kiss. Yourcome-hither comeback being "Oh."As long as we're hip-deep in maybes, it's also possible that you misunderstood,he didn't try to kiss you and he has harbored no romantic interest. So find out.Ask.Write to Tell Me About It, Style Plus, 1150 15th St. NW, Washington, D.C. 20071or tellme@washpost.com, and join Carolyn's live discussion at noon Fridays or 3p.m. Mondays at washingtonpost.com/liveonline