Joe Paterno defended his football program's integrity in a seven-month-oldletter released Wednesday, a day ahead of a report that could forever mar hislegacy.In the letter, written shortly before his death and confirmed as legitimate byhis family, Paterno rejected the notion that Jerry Sandusky's sexual abuse ofboys amounted to a "football scandal" or in any way tarnished theaccomplishments of his players or Penn State's reputation as a whole.The results of Penn State's internal investigation into the Sandusky scandal areset to be released Thursday in a report that should answer many of the troublingquestions swirling around one of the worst scandals in sports history.A team led by former federal judge and FBI ex-director Louis Freeh interviewedhundreds of people to learn how the university responded to warning signs thatits once-revered former assistant football coach - a man who helped Paterno wintwo national titles for a university that touted "success with honor" - was aserial child molester.Sandusky was convicted on 45 criminal counts last month at a trial that includedgut-wrenching testimony from eight young men who said he abused them as boys. Bycontrast, the Freeh report, to be released online at 9 a.m. Thursday, will focuson Penn State and what it did - or didn't do - to protect children.Eight months after Sandusky's arrest, it remains unclear how top universityofficials handled reports dating from at least 14 years that Sandusky wasbehaving inappropriately with boys he met through his charity, bringing them oncampus and forcing them into sex acts.Among those who will be scouring the Freeh report are school officials trying torepair Penn State's shattered reputation and ex-players and alumni who remainoutraged over Paterno's ouster in the wake of Sandusky's arrest. The Hall ofFame coach died from lung cancer in January, two months after school trusteesfired him for what they called a failure of leadership.soccerThe El Salvador and Jamaica national teams will meet in an Aug. 15 friendly atRFK Stadium, local promoters said. Kickoff is at 8 p.m. Tickets are $35 inadvance and $40 on game-day at the stadium.The match falls on an official FIFA international date, meaning both sides arelikely to summon top players.The Salvadoran squad has visited Washington regularly for years and hasattracted large crowds from the Latin American community in the region.Last month, more than 41,000 attended Honduras's 3-0 win over El Salvador atRFK.- Steven GoffJacob Peterson and Graham Zusi each scored second-half goals to lead Sporting KCto a 2-0 victory over the host Philadelphia Union in the U.S. Open Cupsemifinals. . . .http://www.washingtonpost.com/sports/dcunited/honduras-tops-el-salvador-in-soccer-friendly-before-full-house-at-rfk-stadium/2012/06/02/gJQAyWH19U_story.htmlTerry Dunfield scored in stoppagetime to give Toronto FC a 3-2 win over visiting Vancouver in an MLS match.Dunfield, a former Whitecaps player, rose and headed in the winning goal off acorner with just seconds left.misc.The George Washington men's basketball team will face 2012 NCAA tournament teamsNotre Dame and Kansas State as part of its nonconference schedule for nextseason. The Colonials travel to face the Fighting Irish, coached by GW alum MikeBrey, on Nov. 21 and host Kansas State at Smith Center on Dec. 8. GW also hashome games against Hofstra (Nov. 24), Mount St. Mary's (No. 26), VMI (Dec. 22)and Sacred Heart (Dec. 30). The Colonials also will face Manhattan in the annualBB&T Classic on Dec. 2 at Verizon Center.- Matt BonesteelKentucky Derby and Preakness winner I'll Have Another was ailing well before hewas retired from racing with a tendon injury the day ahead of his bid to win theBelmont Stakes and become the first Triple Crown champion in 34 years.The New York Times reported  that veterinary records obtained from New Yorkstate racing officials show that I'll Have Another was being treated withpainkillers and anti-inflammatory drugs in the weeks after his win in thePreakness on May 19 and before the Belmont, which was June 9.According to the records, X-rays of the colt's front ankles and knees taken fourdays after the Preakness showed that I'll Have Another had osteoarthritis. Twodays before the Belmont, the colt was injected with painkillers and a syntheticjoint fluid.Trainer Doug O'Neill announced the next day that I'll Have Another was beingretired, citing an injury to the colt's left front tendon.- From news servicesand staff reports