Hundreds of folks in Bethesda are fighting the fitness company that splashed aracy billboard across a corner of their neighborhood.The offending ad shows a skinny woman on all fours, prowling atop a pool table.Right above the fancy new sandwich place.It's sexist, they say. It degrades women."Our children shouldn't be subjected to this," reads the petition circulatingaround Bethesda, asking the CEO of Equinox gym to kill the ad. "Our femalefriends and family shouldn't be viewed like this, nor forced to conform to it.Our male partners and colleagues shouldn't be boxed in to thinking this isnormal. This is the kind of not-so-subtle sexism that infects our culture, anddegrades an entire gender."I couldn't agree more.And I'm inspired. We need to scrub sexism from our streets.Maybe John Ashcroft was on to something when he insisted on covering the nudiestatues at the Department of Justice.Every day when we walk from the Metro or go on an evening stroll, my childrenare subjected to a hypersexualized depiction of the human form, idealized bodiesand full-frontal nudity.Yet no one has spoken up about the raunchiness of that orgy known as Neptune'sCourt, the fountain right outside the Library of Congress on Capitol Hill thatlooks like a scene from Hugh Hefner's grotto.Have you seen it?Neptune sits high in the middle, flanked by Tritons, escorted by writhing nymphsstraddling bucking sea horses. Everyone's naked.Yeah, I totally think book collections and patent archives when I see thisdisplay.When my boys look at Neptune and his rippling Tritons, how are they supposed tofeel about the expectations for their bodies? What does this say about their ownvision of masculinity and what it means to be a male today?With its sexist art, the Library of Congress is telling boys it's not okay towear glasses, do the dishes and respect their nerdy pursuits. Do they have toconform to be all cut and dominant, rolling with a posse of equally buff dudesand surrounded by naked women?Not only does Neptune's muscled maleness depict an unrealistic ideal of the maleform (hello, protein powder addiction, steroid habit?), but what about theexposed, um, nether parts on those three?The size of those features, on a sculpture to celebrate the nation's literarycollection, is enough to make any male feel inadequate.Water has been lapping at the Tritons' exposed crotches and spraying on the seanymphs' bare chests for more than a century - and no one has uttered a word ofprotest.The only controversy that accompanied the construction of the nation's libraryin the 1890s was the type of cement used for the foundation, the style of thebuilding and the breadth of the nation's literary collection.Weird.Maybe, for 100 years, folks have looked past that fountain for more substantiveways to change society. They've seen it for what it is - art. Provocative,perhaps unseemly. But it's not the only image their children will ever see.My kids laugh at the Neptune fountain and feed the ducks that swim in it. Theywill learn about the many facets of masculinity from lots of people, includingtheir father, their teacher at robotics camp, their taekwondo instructors, theuncle who needlepoints and fishes with them, the dads they see walking allaround Capitol Hill with babies strapped to their chests.The people who hate the Equinox billboard in Bethesda are correct - the ad isdumb. But the campaign is misplaced energy that looks more like censorship thanfeminism."Our daughters and sons walk by the billboard outside Equinox Gym every day.They see a woman in a degrading sexual position, being 'celebrated' for herhypersexualized and supposed dexterity, with a pool cue and balls. This issomehow meant to advertise for a fitness facility," says the petition onChange.org, signed by at least 800 people as of Thursday.But these daughters, if they check in on any media other than the localbillboard, will see female athletes, politicians, war veterans, pilots,scientists, artists who are not stick-thin and compromised on a pool table.Degrading women means legislation that dictates what happens to their bodies andtheir futures without their input. It means less pay for equal work. It meansignoring systemic, sexual abuse by superiors who treat offenses like a joke. Itmeans a Congress that represents 51 percent of the population with less than 20percent of its members.A billboard? That's the least of women's problems.petula.dvorak@washpost.comTo read previous columns, go to washingtonpost.com/dvorak.