If t he incoming Republican leadership in the House of Representatives isserious about trying to repeal  health-care reform , there's only oneappropriate Democratic response: "Make my day."Just to be clear, there's no earthly chance that a bill repealing the landmarkhealth-care overhaul could make it through Congress and be signed into law. Evenif Republicans managed to hold together their new majority in the House, theywould face the inconvenient fact that Democrats still control the Senate. Andeven if a repeal measure somehow sneaked through the Senate, President Obamawould veto the thing faster than you can say "preexisting conditions."So this exercise in tilting at windmills can't even be described as quixotic,since that would imply some expectation of success, however delusional. Thewhole thing is purely theatrical - and woefully ill-advised.Yet Republicans promise to stage a vote on repeal before Obama delivers hisState of the Union address, expected late this month. "If we pass this bill witha sizable vote, and I think that we will, it will put enormous pressure on theSenate to do perhaps the same thing," Rep. Fred Upton, who will be chairman ofthe House Energy and Commerce Committee, said on "Fox News Sunday." "But then,after that, we're going to go after this bill piece by piece."This sounds fine, until you actually look at the pieces. Already in effect areparts of the reform package that no self-interested politician is going to voteto take away.No child can be denied insurance coverage because of a preexisting condition.Coverage can no longer be canceled when the policyholder gets sick. Insurancecompanies can no longer impose annual or lifetime limits on payments for care.Adult children can remain on their parents' policies until they turn 26.Policyholders cannot be charged extra for seeking urgent care at an emergencyroom that is not in the insurance company's approved network of providers.Those measures took effect in September. Another set of provisions became law onSaturday: requirements that insurance companies spend a certain percentage ofthe premiums they collect on care; a discount on prescription drugs for someseniors covered by Medicare; a rule that gives seniors free screening for cancerand other diseases.Republican leaders aren't dumb enough to explicitly propose taking all thesebenefits away. But Democrats can, and should, force them to have that debate.The GOP strategy is to go after the less popular elements of the reform package.These include a requirement that businesses do a lot more paperwork for the IRS,a measure allowing federal money to pay for abortions in the case of rape orincest, and the mandate compelling individuals to buy health insurance. "We willlook at these individual pieces to see if we can't have the thing crumble,"Upton said.But these are fights that Democrats should welcome.The tax-reporting measure, which requires businesses to file a 1099 form withthe IRS for every expenditure over $600, really has nothing to do with healthcare; many Democrats are as eager to get rid of it as Republicans. As forabortion, the provisions of the reform package are fully in keeping withexisting law - and with public opinion.It seems likely that the constitutionality of the individual mandate willultimately be decided by the Supreme Court. It takes nothing more than simplearithmetic, however, to calculate that in order to make possible the other partsof the reform package - prohibiting denial of coverage because of preexistingconditions, keeping kids on their parents' policies, all those goodies - it'snecessary to bring as many people as possible into the insurance pool.Otherwise, only sick people would buy coverage. Rates would inevitablyskyrocket.I suppose you could call it a "tax" or a "user fee" instead, but a debate aboutthe unpopular mandate is really a debate over rescinding the popular,consumer-friendly measures that are already bringing peace of mind to millionsof American families.Maybe the new House leadership believes it needs to stage this fight to keep theTea Party types from going rogue. Smart Republicans must know, however, thatthey won their public-relations advantage on health-care reform by framing it asa big, amorphous beastly thing labeled "Obama-care."All along, what Democrats really wanted was for Americans to look closely at thedetails. Now it looks as if the GOP is ready to oblige.Eugene Robinson will be online to chat with readers at 1 p.m. Eastern timeTuesday. Submit your questions or comments before or during the discussion.The writer will answer questions at 1 p.m. today at www.washingtonpost.com. Hise-mail address is eugenerobinson@washpost.com