Graham Spanier may have been ousted from his post as Penn State president overthe sex-abuse scandal that engulfed the university, but it seems he's found abackup employer: the American taxpayer.Spanier was faulted in an internal Penn State report after former assistantfootball coach Jerry Sandusky was convicted of child molestationhttp://www.washingtonpost.com/wp-srv/sports/documents/sandusky-grand-jury-report11052011.html. The reportsaid that Spanier, head coach Joe Paterno and others helped cover up Sandusky'sabuse.His attorney confirms to the Loop that Spanier is working as a part-timeconsultant for a "top-secret" agency on national security issues. But the gig isso hush-hush, he couldn't even tell his attorneys the name of the agency.In April - months after his ouster as president but before the release of theinternal report - he told the Patriot-News of central Pennsylvania that he wasworking on a "special project for the U.S. government relating [to] nationalsecurity."But who's he working for? The CIA? Homeland Security? A consulting firm with agovernment contract?"I have no idea," said his attorney, Peter Vaira. "We know the work is insecurity and he's prohibited from disclosing which agency or agencies he'sworking for."After the internal report - by former FBI director Louis Freeh - was released,Spanier complained ina statement from his attorneys that the document didn'tmention his government clearance - something he apparently thought was evidenceof his trustworthiness. He noted that his security clearance (which heapparently had obtained while still at Penn State) "required a re-review whenthe Sandusky matter surfaced in November" and that federal investigatorsconducted their own probe of his role in the scandal. The federal investigationended with his clearance being "reaffirmed," the statement read.The Office of Personnel Management, essentially the federal government's humanresources department, didn't shed any light on Spanier's mysterious gig as apossible federal employee. They instructed us to call individual agencies, eventhough we pointed out that we didn't know which agencies to contact.Have you spotted Spanier, sporting a government ID on a lanyard, and perhapscarrying a brown-bag lunch? Let us know at intheloop@washpost.comNo girls allowedTo reporters, little is sacrosanct. We ask personal questions without batting aneyelash, stake out private meetings with impunity and make general nuisances ofourselves.But there are some thresholds even most journos won't cross in pursuit of astory - like the bathroom door.Last night, one reporter's zeal to get a quote from Rep. David Dreier (R-Calif.)led her into verboten territory: the men's room off the House floor.Dreier apparently decided to play a little prank on the (female) reporters whowere chasing him and pressing him for details about a possible emergency meetingof the Rules Committee, the panel he chairs.Upon reaching the door to the loo, he playfully swung it open and jokingly saidsomething to the effect of "Come on in - we'll talk about it."CQ reporter Rachael Bade assumed the door led to a private room and took a fewsteps in, not understanding why other reporters weren't following. She quicklyrealized her error and made a hasty about-face, but she took it all in stride."I totally fell for his little trap," she tells us. "Everyone was laughing."Points for effort!A beef with the USDAOn Monday, a U.S Department of Agriculture employee newsletter encouraged folksto start "going meatless" on Mondays as a way to help the environment, saveresources, improve health and so on.The National Cattlemen's Beef Association and other industry groups wereoutraged.Sen. Jerry Moran(R-Kan.) took to the Senate floor Wednesday afternoonto protest the newsletter.The Agriculture Department's mission was "to promote agriculture, to help thosewho . . . produce food, fiber and fuel for this country and the world," he said."Yet our own Department of Agriculture is encouraging people not to eat meat."A department official promptly sent an e-mail to Senate staff : "I wanted to besure you had the following statement regarding the claims that USDA is promoting'Meatless Mondays,' " she wrote.  "USDA does not endorse Meatless Monday. Thestatement found on the USDA website was posted without proper clearance and ithas been removed."Former Redskins cornerbackDarrell Green in his prime couldn't have backpedaledfaster.Salt in the woundThe Loop Quote of the Week award goes to British Prime Minister David Cameron.(He also wins Nasty Retort of the Week.)It started Wednesday when Mitt Romney, who ran the 2002 Winter Olympics in SaltLake City and of course is now running for president, told NBC News that hefound the British preparations for the upcoming Summer Games "disconcerting,"citing reports of security and other problems.Seems like a completely reasonable observation.But Cameron was most annoyed."We are holding an Olympic Games in one of the busiest, most active, bustlingcities anywhere in the world," he said. "Of course it's easier if you hold anOlympic Games in the middle of nowhere."Ouch!With Emily Heilkamena@washpost.comThe blog: washingtonpost.com/intheloop. Twitter: @InTheLoopWP.