You can still feel that second piece of pumpkin cheesecake right above yourwaistband, you're questioning your judgment on 90 percent of your Black Fridaypurchases, and Cyber Monday added three more pairs of shoes to your overstuffedshoe closet.It's okay, it happens to the best of us.But I have the answer to erase all this damage done around the season that wasonce a time to humbly bow our heads and give thanks for all that we have. It's anew thing called Giving Tuesday, an idea that started in New York two years agoand quickly spread via social media. The first      #GivingTuesday, in 2012,generated $10.1 million in donations. Last year, that nearly doubled, to $19.2million. The average donation was $142, according to Blackbaud, one of thefounding partners of the movement.All this generosity makes way for Clean Slate Wednesday. So this year, I presentto you the Giving List, a handful of organizations that work to solve some ofthe headline-worthy problems in our region. Consider making a donation to any ofthem or to a nonprofit organization of your choice. I promise, you'll feel muchbetter about that Snow Glow Elsa and the GoPro camera stashed in the closet.Final SaluteThere is a woman in uniform living in a Virginia homeless shelter right now,even as she gets ready to deploy to Afghanistan. What's keeping a roof over herhead until she lands at our base out there is Jas Boothe and her group, FinalSalute.Boothe, an Army captain who was once homeless, founded this group to help theincreasing number of female veterans and their children who find themselveswithout a home, usually after returning from a deployment. Their home lives canfall apart while they are gone. And once they've left the military, findingemployment is challenging, Boothe said.A $25 donation can house a woman and her children in one of their transitionalhomes for a day. If you're feeling really generous, or your business is lookingfor a good charity to fund, $5,000 would take care of 10 service members andtheir children for a month.finalsaluteinc.orgA Wider CircleHomelessness isn't always easy to detect on the outside. The woman I met wasdressed well, and her car was pretty nice. She's a substitute teacher in aMontgomery County public school. And she's been sleeping on a couch for about ayear."You just don't get a good night's sleep like that," said Mark Bergel, executivedirector of A Wider Circle. He gave his own bed up in 2008 and vows to sleep onthe floor, on the couch, on chairs until everyone else has a bed.The woman has been through a divorce, eviction, a layoff. She was embarrassed tobe strapping the new mattresses from A Wider Circle to her car, but grateful.A Wider Circle accepts donations of professional clothing, furniture, toys,cleaning supplies and toiletries. But if you want to simply click on GivingTuesday, you can help buy a new mattress for someone struggling to stand tall.awidercircle.org/get-involvedThriveDCThree homeless centers near the ThriveDC headquarters have shut down in the pastfour years in a part of the District that's getting fancier every day.Meanwhile, homelessness in the city is going up.In the basement of a Northwest Washington church, the folks with ThriveDC servebreakfast for men in the mornings, dinner for women and children in theevenings. They have a barber give haircuts, there is the quiet click of needlesduring knitting class. There is a computer lab, showers, washing machines.Executive Director Alicia Horton said the organization emphasizes respect in theway they work with clients. That's one of the first thing the men having coffeein that basement told me. "They really care about us," one of them told me. "Iam treated like a person here."www.thrivedc.orgRAINN (Rape, Abuse and Incest National Network)This has been a heartbreaking and heartening year on the subject of sexualassault. We listened to stories from women alleging they were drugged and rapedby comedy legend Bill Cosby and talked about the shocking treatment rape victimssaid they received at the University of Virginia. They are being heard partlybecause of advocacy work done by groups such as RAINN, who operate counselinglines for the growing number of victims who are being empowered to come forward.rainn.orgCasa RubyThe statistics aren't good for transgender kids. Studies have shown that 41percent of them have attempted suicide, 61 percent have been physicallyassaulted and 64 percent have been sexually assaulted. Countless transgenderkids end up homeless after being kicked out by their families.Ruby Corado has been an advocate for lesbian, gay, bisexual and transgenderissues in the District for two decades. Her Casa Ruby has been a safe haven forLatino LGBT kids and, last week, she signed the papers to create a 10- to 12-bedsafe house for transgender kids. You can help fund this project, which will giveshelter, acceptance and a chance to many kids who feel like they have nowhereelse to go.www.casaruby.orgThere. Feel better?petula.dvorak@washpost.comTwitter: @petulad6For previous columns, go to washingtonpost.com/dvorak .