John McCain is no silver-tongued orator, as he proved in St. Paul, but it's hardnot to be stirred when he speaks of wanting only to serve a cause greater thanhimself -- until you take a closer look and see that he's running one of themost egocentric presidential campaigns in memory.Not that Barack Obama lacks a healthy opinion of himself, mind you. And no onewants the next president to be paralyzed with insecurity, or to doubt, even fora minute, that he's the right man for the job. But after ridiculing Obama as apreening celebrity, if not a self-proclaimed messiah, McCain is campaigning on aplatform that can be summed up in three words: me, me, me.Much has been made of the fact that he's a Republican running on a pledge toclean up the intolerable, unforgivable mess created over the past eight years bya Republican president -- and, for much of that time, a Republican-controlledCongress in which McCain himself had great power and influence. It's amusing tolisten to a man in his fourth term in the Senate (after two terms in the House)rail against evil "Washington," as if he weren't one of this modern-day Sodom'smost prominent denizens.There has been less comment, however, on the extent to which McCain rejects notonly his party's record but also important tenets of its stated philosophy. He'sa Republican who doesn't entirely believe in modern Republicanism."We oppose amnesty" for undocumented immigrants, the GOP platform says. "Therule of law suffers if government policies encourage or reward illegalactivity." Yet McCain co-authored the ill-fated immigration reform bill thatwould have granted de facto amnesty to millions who are in this country withoutthe proper papers."Republicans caution against the doomsday climate change scenarios peddled bythe aficionados of centralized command-and-control government," the platformsays. McCain is with his party on the issue of offshore drilling -- there was asurreal moment in St. Paul when delegates were actually chanting "drill, baby,drill" -- but he has tried his best to sound more like a Democrat inacknowledging the urgency of taking measures to ameliorate global warming.On abortion, the platform is uncompromisingly pro-life and mentions noexceptions for rape or incest; McCain believes there should indeed beexceptions. On embryonic stem-cell research, the platform says no; McCain saysyes.I'm not being disingenuous. I know that party platforms aren't as important asthey once were. But McCain's apostasy on these hot-button issues has to beconsidered alongside the stunning charges he leveled against his own party inhis acceptance speech. "We were elected to change Washington, and we letWashington change us," he said. "We lost the trust of the American people whensome Republicans gave in to the temptations of corruption. . . . We lost theirtrust when we valued our power over our principles."I can't argue with any of that. Those sound like great reasons to throw theRepublicans out of town and give Democrats a chance to lead. But John McCain isarguing that he should be elected in spite of his party's many failures because,well, he's John McCain. He's special."I'm not running for president because I think I'm blessed with such personalgreatness that history has anointed me to save our country in its hour of need,"McCain said in accepting the nomination. But this line -- which I took as acontinuation of his attempt to paint Obama as some kind of self-proclaimedChosen One -- came right after a lengthy recounting of the horrors McCain livedthrough as a prisoner of war in Vietnam. In effect, he had used his personalexperience to anoint himself.McCain's speech offered hardly anything in terms of policy. At one point, hementioned three "ordinary" families by name and spoke of their travails -- andit was no coincidence that they happened to live in Michigan, Pennsylvania andNew Hampshire, states that McCain would like to steal from the Democrats thisyear. But he offered no specifics on how the federal government under a McCainadministration would make these families' lives one bit better. He pledged onlythat he, personally, would "fight" for them.McCain and his campaign aides are right when they insinuate that one candidateis acting as if he thinks voters should accept him, on faith, as their politicalmessiah. They're just trying to make fun of the wrong one.The writer will answer questions at noon today at www.washingtonpost.com. Hise-mail address is eugenerobinson@washpost.com