Sirens and blood. When there's a pileup on I-95, the National Highway TrafficSafety Administration (NHTSA) gathers up all the details -- the make of thevehicles, the time of day, the place on the highway, whether the victims werewearing seatbelts or the drivers were drunk.Blood and sirens. When a person blows his head off in the kitchen or the woods,or when someone is murdered in an alleyway, well -- forget it. There's noequivalent system that collects the details of the death and analyzes thepatterns of these violent injuries.This is the Fatal Data Gap. One kind of sudden violent death is routinelystudied on a nationwide basis; another kind is not. Yet about 50,000 Americanssuffer a nontraffic violent death every year, almost all from suicide andhomicide.To reduce the toll, researchers need to know how and why these fatalities occur.What percent of young people who take their own lives are intoxicated at thetime of death? How often does a child die from abuse -- every two hours or twodays?Nobody really knows. The National Center for Health Statistics collectsinformation from death certificates. The FBI collects information aboutoffenders and victims of crime. But the two systems aren't linked. Thecircumstances that led to the violence are often not recorded. Information isscattered among different local and federal agencies. There's no nationalreporting system on these deaths like NHTSA's Fatality Analysis Reporting System(FARS).Now that's about to change. At President Bush's request, the Centers for DiseaseControl and Prevention (CDC) has started a small $ 1.5 million project to set upa National Violent Death Reporting System.It builds on the innovative statewide reporting system in Wisconsin and a pilotprogram sponsored by Harvard's School of Public Health in seven areas of thecountry. The goal is to analyze these fatalities so that public health officialswill have a scientific basis for designing preventive strategies."Our knowledge of these events is fragmented. That's why it's so exciting to seethe dots being connected," says Stephen W. Hargarten, who heads the emergencymedicine department at the Medical College of Wisconsin in Milwaukee. As hemakes clear: "I'm a physician. This is a health problem."You notice that so far I have avoided the mention of one key word: guns.Nobody wants to rouse the gun lobby and give it a reason to block thisinitiative. Language is important. The project is not called the firearmfatality surveillance program. It is the National Violent Death Reporting Systemthat will collect data regardless of the weapon used -- a gun, a fist or aknife."Everyone can be for it," says David Hemenway, director of Harvard's injurycontrol research center. "The more data, the better. This is not only morepolitically correct. It makes a lot more sense in terms of the science."For decades public health officials tried to address gun violence the way theytackled tobacco use and other leading causes of death. Former surgeon general C.Everett Koop labeled the bullet a pathogen. But targeting gun injuries can behazardous to research. A pilot project at CDC in the 1990s to monitor firearmfatalities drew ire from gun advocates and was stopped after three years. Nowall money appropriated to CDC to study injuries comes with a stipulation fromCongress that the funds cannot be used to advocate for gun control.Still, guns are the significant factor. Easier access to guns may explain whyhomicide rates are so much higher in the United States than in other high-incomecountries. The overall crime rates for robbery, car theft and sexual assault areabout the same. But the homicide rate is about five times higher in thiscountry. Among children aged 5 to 14, the gun suicide rate is 10 times higher.Even within the United States, many more gun suicides occur in "high gun" states-- places such as Louisiana, Wyoming and West Virginia, where gun ownership ismore common -- than in "low gun" states like Massachusetts, Rhode Island and NewJersey.By not focusing on guns, the new initiative makes an effort to create somecommon ground between pro-gun and anti-gun groups. As James A. Mercy of CDC'sinjury prevention program says: "People with all points of view on guns cansupport collecting objective data on this problem."The reporting system is modeled after the national traffic safety program, whichanalyzes all the factors that lead to fatal injuries. Out of this informationhas come seat belt and motorcycle helmet laws, better car designs, campaignsagainst drunk driving. Automobile fatalities have fallen about 80 percent permile driven over 50 years.The same bonanza in saved lives could come from a national reporting system onviolent death. There are already tantalizing clues from Harvard's pilot program.Location is a key determinant of violent death, for example. More than 65percent of women who are murdered are killed at home, while more than 80 percentof men are murdered away from home. The implication: Putting more police on thestreets is not likely to protect women, but home visits by social workers might.A national reporting system could also evaluate interventions. In Wisconsin,researchers found that guns recovered in local buyback campaigns were not thekind of guns used in homicides -- which suggests that buybacks may not reducethe toll of gun fatalities.All in all, good data will lead to better public health.Abigail Trafford can be reached by e-mail at trafforda@washpost.com. Join her onTuesday at 2 p.m. on www.washingtonpost.com for a Health Talk discussion onprotecting your skin in the summer.