From 8 a.m. until just before dark Monday, the female veterans told theirstories."I'd go into the medical closet and cry, cry, cry," one said."The men got Purple Hearts. We got broken hearts," another said."The sound. That sound of the helicopter. You heard that sound, and you knewmore were coming," another woman said.For more than two decades, America didn't want to hear the stories of nurses andother women who served in Vietnam. They were scorned and disrespected.When they began pushing for a memorial to the women who served, detractorsworried that would open the floodgates to even more memorials - such as forscout dogs.But supporters said the fantastic, perfect Vietnam Veterans Memorial by Maya Lin- the Wall - was nevertheless incomplete. Then-Sen. Frank Murkowski (R-Alaska)said during one of the 1988 congressional hearings that there was a "void."Larry Sudweeks knows about that."Larry had this hole. Like a big old void," said Larry's wife, Loretta Sudweeks,as she pointed to Larry's chest.The void in Sudweeks's life goes back to his time in Vietnam, where he spent 45days in the 93rd Evacuation Hospital in Long Binh.He knew it was the nurses who kept him alive. Once they made him strong enough,he was flown home, back to family and away from that place of blood and gauzeand death. Another broken, dying soldier took his bed before Sudweeks got achance to thank them or even get their names.His was a common experience."I can't remember your name, but I just wanted to say thanks for saving mylife," read one of the notes left on the Mall on Monday. It was signed "One ofMany."The rest of America had the same problem: never getting the women's names, neverhaving the time to thank them.It wasn't until 1993 that the Vietnam Women's Memorial was dedicated to honorthe ones who volunteered to serve, who stayed while others were flown out, whodid the comforting but were never comforted.There was no draft for women. About 11,000 - most of them nurses - raised theirhands and went over on their own.A few hundred of them came to the women's memorial in the District to remember,talk, embrace, share and celebrate the 20th anniversary of their memorial - andtwo decades of America finally acknowledging their service.Sudweeks, 66, finally got to say thanks, too.He lives in California. And he came to the Wall a couple of years ago to see thenames of his buddies who died, to get closure."But he kept circling that women's memorial; he was drawn to it," Loretta said.He still didn't know who the women were who saved him.Meanwhile, Annie Koch Voigt, 68, one of the women who kept him alive, wonderedabout him, too. This was many, many years after those dark days of war. Afterchildren and grandchildren and other wars.Voigt had this one picture she took of a wounded soldier on Easter Sunday, whenthey all wore nurse whites rather than their fatigues. And it haunted her.She remembered his unusual name. She remembered that he was nice and courteous.Most men spent a couple of days at her evacuation hospital, then were flownaway. But Sudweeks was there for weeks and in bad condition.Part of her didn't want to learn his fate. You never knew who made it and whodidn't. And sometimes, it was best not to know.And part of her didn't want to revisit that time in her life. Like the men, thewomen who served in Vietnam were often scorned when they returned to America. Itwas especially bad for women, who were judged as harlots for having served amongthe men. The television show "M*A*S*H" didn't help, either. They'd say "Armynurse," and all people heard was "Hot Lips Houlihan."Many of them folded their uniforms, put away their caps and stayed silent abouttheir service.Not anymore.There is a new wave of female veterans, including women who saw combat and wereinjured or lost friends on the battlefield."We talk to the women who are out there now," said Army 1st. Lt. Brenda Jansons,who came up from South Carolina for Veterans Day. She still suffers from PTSDfrom her time in Vietnam. "And you know what? Their story is our story.Nothing's changed."That's true in the saddest of ways."There's a secondary war," said Jennie Rose, 66, a retired Army lieutenantcolonel."The sexual assault of women is the secondary war on them. And it's there andit's very, very real," she said, pointing to herself and another female veteran."We both lived through it."It was Gen. Colin Powell who first publicly thanked the nurses who saved him."General Powell said words we'd never heard before," said Diane Carlson Evans,president and founder of the Vietnam Women's Memorial Foundation.Powell dedicated that memorial 20 years ago and returned to the Mall on Mondayto remind America what women had done in that war."The nurses were the ones who never got respite," he said, and he askedeveryone, on this Veterans Day, to give thanks "especially to the women whoserved silently."Voigt decided to end her silence. She looked up Sudweeks's unusual name andfound his address in California. She mailed him the picture, the details of hiswounds and her memories."It took me three or four tries to finish reading that card," Sudweeks said. "Itwas her."At the memorial, Loretta and Larry Sudweeks and Voigt hugged.And Larry Sudweeks finally said, "Thank you."dvorakp@washpost.comOn Twitter: @petuladTo read previous columns, go to washingtonpost.com/dvorak.