Flora Singer had to tell her story. She told it before crowds of teachers. Shetold it before schoolchildren and their parents. And she always told it whiledisplaying the worn and tattered yellow star she was forced to put on herclothes, marking her for inevitable death as a Jewish girl living inNazi-occupied Belgium in the early 1940s.She survived, and became a foreign-language teacher for Montgomery County PublicSchools. In the remnants of her Eastern European accent, she often recounted howshe made it through the Holocaust -- and how in many ways she did not.Flora Mendelowitz, as she was born in 1930, was 11 when she was forced intohiding with her mother, Fani, and two younger sisters to avoid the death camps.Her father had managed to escape to the United States, with the hope ofenlisting in the U.S. Army in an attempt to save his family. But he was neversent back to Europe.As the eldest daughter, Flora would make clandestine trips to France with hermother to smuggle back food for the family. She once hid in a vegetable cratestashed on the back of a truck to avoid the Gestapo.As the situation grew more dire, Benedictine nuns and monks helped hide thegirls in orphanages, apartments, Catholic schools and convents throughoutBelgium. George Ranson, a businessman, provided false documents and a factoryjob for Fani. Father Bruno Reynders, a Catholic priest, who is credited withsaving the lives of more than 300 Jewish children, made sure the Mendelowitzesremained safe. They did.After the war, the Mendelowitz family came to New York in 1946 and reunited withDavid Mendelowitz.Mrs. Singer, 78, who died Feb. 25 at her home in Potomac of complications from astroke, had settled in the Washington area with her husband, Jack, and lived arelatively a low-key existence, savoring the freedom and comfort she never hadas a young girl.But the early years of her life were often on her mind.In the early 1980s, when Mrs. Singer found a flier on her car from a whitesupremacist group denying the Holocaust, she decided the time had come for herto share her story.She teamed up with two other educators in Montgomery County schools, Sue Shoteland Bob Hines, to create a curriculum for training the county's teachers on howto teach the Holocaust. She also began to accept public speaking engagements,sharing her story with students and organizations across the country.She would often tell the story of how she saw an elderly Jewish man kicked todeath by fascist youths."While one Black Shirt pulled the old man by his beard, two others pulled hispeyot, his side curls," she wrote in her 2007 memoir, "Flora: I Was but aChild." "They then threw him to the ground in the middle of the street, andkicked him with their boots as he lay there helpless, screaming in Yiddish toGod 'Raboyneh Sheloylem . . . helf mir!' (Creator of the Universe, help me!).One of the fascists jumped on the old man's abdomen and danced on his prostratebody. Soon the old man fell silent."She told the publication Washington Jewish Week that she thought about theHolocaust -- including the rape of her mother by German soldiers -- almost everyday of her life."I was then, and continue to be, bewildered and astonished at the extent of thecruelty that human beings are capable of inflicting upon one another," she said.Her memoir was published by Yad Vashem and the Holocaust Survivors' MemoirsProject in 2007, one year after she suffered a stroke that left her unable tospeak. Cardinal Theodore McCarrick, former archbishop of Washington, wrote thebook's preface."The saddest part of Flora's life, besides the terrible youth that she had, wasthe end of her life, when she lost her ability to communicate, which is what shedid the best," Shotel said.In 2007, the Arkansas Democrat-Gazette wrote that the book is "the ultimatelesson of all Holocaust studies."Her daughter, Sandra Landsman of Potomac, said that her mom, while not avengeful person, was most proud that she escaped the Holocaust and later had herown family."She told me, 'Sandy, this is my revenge against Hitler,' " Landsman said.To see more photographs of Flora Singer during World War II and in later years,visit The Washington Post obituaries blog Post Mortem at http://voices.washingtonpost.com/postmortem.