Below is an excerpt from "On Faith," a daily online religion section sponsoredby The Washington Post and Newsweek. Each week, Jon Meacham and Sally Quinnengage figures from the world of faith in a conversation about an aspect ofreligion. This week, On Faith asked panelists whether the news media  were beingfair to the pope. Is the media biased against the Catholic Church or itshierarchy? How would you advise the pope?Media decides, then reports: Some quarters of the media in the past few weeksseem to have a difficulty in getting stories right and fair. Fact-checkers andskeptical editors may have gone the way of dinosaurs. Some media appear to citepeople for inflammability and absurdity, not knowledge. At times it seems thatbias abounds, libel runs freely and scrutiny lies by the side of the road.Mary Ann Walsh,  director of media relations, U.S. Conference of CatholicBishopsPope's opportunity to talk: Is the press biased and unfair? Some are; somearen't. But so what? Trying to make the story about the bias of the press is ablatant dodge of legitimate questions about the behavior of abusive priests andcovering-up bishops. To own his rightful place as the moral leader of theCatholic Church, the pope needs to stop running away from this conversation andjoin the dialogue that will allow the Holy Spirit to heal the crisis in hischurch.Janet Edwards,  co-moderator, More Light PresbyteriansAn institution accustomed to kid gloves: Far from being biased against the pope,the Catholic Church or the hierarchy, I think the mainstream media  are being onthe whole eminently fair. Of course, that is the problem. The Vatican has longbeen accustomed to deferential, even fawning treatment by most mainstream mediaoutlets, especially on the searing-hot topic of clergy sex abuse. Fairness isunfamiliar -- and stinging.Tom Flynn,  executive director, Council for Secular HumanismMedia bias and Catholic bashing: One of the hallmarks of bigotry is thecollectivization of guilt. By that measure, much of the criticism against thepope has been nothing if not Catholic bashing. From militant atheists likeChristopher Hitchens and Richard Dawkins indicting the Catholic Church as a"child-raping institution" to newspaper cartoons branding all Catholic clergy asmolesters, the evidence is clear that anti-Catholicism is alive and well.Bill Donohue,  president, Catholic League for Religious and Civil Rights