If you're an NFL player, you must want to punch Aaron Hernandez in hisdumb-sullen jaw for making his face into the face of the league. If you have anykind of pride in your profession, you must want to shove him in the tattooedchest, with the florid stupidities etched on it, and tell him to quit spillinghis ink all over you and your teammates.Appearances matter, not as a moral issue but from a purely practical standpoint.That's the lesson to take from Hernandez's self-portrait as a pop-style killerwith a dead jailhouse gaze, one dangerously in love with his muscled-up arms. Ifhe's innocent, good luck proving it to the masses and a jury. It would be niceto say Hernandez's appearance in court is his problem and his alone, but itisn't. It has become the problem of every guy he played with or against becauseHernandez has convinced many people, Geraldo Rivera and Rush Limbaugh amongthem, that the NFL wittingly harbors gang executioners.Hernandez's example has become Exhibit A for braying commentators who havepainted the entire league in stigmas as crude as snake and dagger tattoos.Rivera denounced the league's "jungle ethos" and - incredibly - described NFLplayers as "fatherless" products recruited from the "inner city" in need of"minders." Actually, Hernandez was not fatherless, and he's from middle-classConnecticut suburbs, not the inner city, and we all know what that 1970seuphemism means. It means poor and non-white and therefore brutal. Rivera wasfollowed closely by Limbaugh, who said, "This has the potential to blow the lidopen on the NFL and gangs and the whole concept."Here is a fact that you may find hard to believe after listening to them: NFLplayers commit crimes at a much lower rate than their peers in the generalpopulation. Around 2,700 players pass through NFL training camps every season,and 1,696 make rosters. Yes, some of them get arrested - about 2 to 3 percent ayear. The national arrest rate for males aged 22 to 34? It's 10.8 percent,according to FBI crime statistics for 2009.There have been a grand total of 34 arrests of NFL players since the Super Bowl,according to a crime database compiled by the San Diego Tribune. If that numbersounds high, juxtapose it next to the 1,600-plus men who did not get arrestedand who did exactly nothing to deserve the phrase "jungle ethos."Now let's take a look at some of those arrests, break them down and see whatkind of crimes they were.Seven of the arrests were for DUIs. This is not a great statistic, yet it'shardly surprising, given that men between the ages of 21 and 25 are the worstoffenders when it comes to drunken driving. One study in Illinois showed thatthe age group has a DUI arrest rate of about 17 per 1,000 licensed drivers.Two of the arrests were for public intoxication. Three were for marijuanapossession. Three more belong in the category of risky or feckless butcomparatively benign behavior: Cardinals running back Javarris James failed toappear for a court proceeding, Eagles tackle Jason Peters got caught drag racingand Broncos safety Quinton Carter tried to cheat in a casino.One was an arrest for minor weapons charges, when a player forgot he had alegally registered handgun in his luggage and took it to an airport.At least six arrests were for violence-related crimes and were matters of thedeepest concern. One was Browns linebacker Ausar Walcott, who almost killed aman with a punch in a bar fight.Jets running back Mike Goodson faces an assortment of charges for riding in acar found to contain a loaded semi-automatic weapon with hollow point bullets,as well as drug paraphernalia. Browns defensive lineman Desmond Bryant wasarrested for criminal mischief when he tried to break down the door of astranger's home. And Colts safety Joe Lefeged was charged with carrying anunlicensed gun and fleeing police after a Washington traffic stop.Then there is Hernandez, who is in another category altogether, charged with onemurder  and under investigation for two more  and who has pleaded innocentdespite the growing number of people who seem to get shot around him. Whoseself-portrait holding a Glock will haunt every sap in the league who getsarrested for too many cocktails or for pulling on a bong or who happens to havetats crawling up his arms. Right now the Limbaughs and Riveras are looking atthem all as if they need to be manacled and perp walked.As the previous recitation shows, the NFL has its share of legal and socialproblems. And there is no minimizing the three notorious murder cases in thelast 15 years among Rae Carruth (2001), Jovan Belcher last year  and nowHernandez. Clearly it's not always easy to tell the difference between men whoare talented at a violent game and men who are simply violent.But the NFL is not the only organization that unwittingly harbors criminals. Themilitary had 26,000 cases of sexual assault last year. And for sheer volume ofcriminal activity, don't look at the NFL; look at financial institutions, whichin 2011 accounted for 1,719 FBI cases. The statistics suggest the men who playfootball are, on the whole, less criminally violent than soldiers and moreethically respectable than looters with Harvard MBAs who commit acts of grandlarceny with "financial instruments." Or the middle management creeps employedby Cleveland Browns owner Jim Haslam at Pilot Oil, who have pleaded guilty tobilking long-haul truckers.The league constantly deals with stereotype. It fights an ongoing war againstportrayals of players as gun brandishing, wife-beating, uneducated, morallybankrupt, assaulting criminals. In fact, 80 percent of retired NFL players overthe age of 50 have college degrees, compared with 30 percent of the generalpopulation, according to a University of Michigan study. That same survey said64 percent of NFL retirees between the ages of 30 and 49 found are still marriedto their first wife. As a group they are more committed and disciplined thanmost employees, evince deep loyalty to their bosses and colleagues and sacrificetheir long-term health for their families. In return for which they get rantedat by fans for being overpaid and stigmatized as thugs by foaming commentatorsin need of story lines.So the next time Hernandez appears in court, don't identify him as an NFLplayer. He's not one anymore. And he never was a particularly representativeone.sally.jenkins@washpost.comFor Sally Jenkins's previous columns, visit washingtonpost.com/jenkins.More on the Aaron Hernandez case:A charmed life turned tragicThe Early Lead: Hernandez is denied bailThe Early Lead: Ex-Patriots tight end is under investigation for 2012 murdersThe Early Lead: Hernandez jerseys are selling well on eBayThe Early Lead: A reported 2007 incident details trouble at Florida