--  A Sept. 23 Metro article about Maryland Republicans' strategy for the 2010elections misstated the year in which Democrat Frank M. Kratovil Jr. was electedto represent the state's 1st Congressional District. He was elected in 2008, not2006.--  The recipe for Favorite Bittersweet Chocolate Bars in the Sept. 23 Foodsection gave conflicting amounts for unsalted butter. It should be 12 ounces(three sticks). The corrected recipe appears online at http://www.washingtonpost.com/recipes.--  A Sept. 21 Metro article about an incident that led to assault chargesagainst an off-duty Capitol Police officer incorrectly identified AssistantState's Attorney C.T. Wilson as an assistant U.S. attorney.--  A Sept. 20 Travel article about biking and climbing Mount Kilimanjaromisspelled the Swahili phrase for "slowly," the caution given to hikers there.It is "pole pole," not "poly-poly."--  Mini theater reviews of "Cosi Fan Tutte Goes Hollywood" and "From U Streetto the Cotton Club" in the Sept. 18 Weekend section listed an incorrect phonenumber for the In Series at the Source. The correct number is 202-204-7763.--  A Sept. 15 A-section article about President Obama's positions onfaith-based initiatives misattributed comments about a 2007 Bush administrationmemo on religious organizations' eligibility for government funding. It was aletter from the advocacy group Americans United for the Separation of Church andState that called the memo "flatly erroneous" and "legally suspect," not JusticeDepartment nominee Dawn Johnsen or department lawyer Martin Lederman.--  An Aug. 20 Metro item about the arrest of a clinic worker in Fairfax Countyon charges of sexual battery misstated the man's title. Jorge Sanchez ofHagerstown, Md., was working as a medical assistant, not a physician'sassistant, at Chantilly Specialists.The Washington Post is committed to correcting errors that appear in thenewspaper. Those interested in contacting the paper for that purpose can send ane-mail to corrections@washpost.com or call the main number, 202-334-6000, andask to be connected to the desk involved -- National, Foreign, Metro, Style,Sports, Business or any of the weekly sections. In addition, the ombudsman'snumber is 202-334-7582.