ALICE'S ADVENTURESLewis Carroll in Popular CultureBy Will Brooker. Continuum. 376 pp. $35 It's been said that Lewis Carroll'spaired classics -- Alice's Adventures in Wonderland (1865) and its slightly moreprogrammatic sequel, Through the Looking-Glass (1872) -- are, after the Bibleand Shakespeare, the most quoted books in English. "Curiouser and curiouser,""Drink Me," "Who are you?" "The different branches of Arithmetic -- Ambition,Distraction, Uglification, and Derision," "Off with her head!" Such phrasesinstantly call to mind Wonderland and characters like the Mad Hatter and theMarch Hare, the Cheshire Cat, the Caterpillar, the Queen of Hearts. Were one tolist the most beloved novels in the world, the two Alice fantasies would likelygrab the top spot.Yet as Will Brooker points out in this revealing though somewhat scattershotstudy, Lewis Carroll and Alice possess dual identities in the popularimagination. Carroll, or rather Charles L. Dodgson, is the eccentric, shy andstammering Oxford don with a kind heart, a flair for mathematical and linguisticpuzzles and an old bachelor's prissy affection for children. That's thetraditional view and, to my mind, still largely the true one. But some modernreaders and critics take Dodgson as little better than a pedophile, a depravedHumbert Humbert who proposed marriage to 11-year-old Alice Liddell (model andinspiration for the fictional Alice) and snakily convinced mothers to allow himto photograph their pubescent daughters in risqué poses, or even in the nude.Similarly, Alice has been portrayed as both a polite, strong-minded butessentially innocent and well brought-up young lady -- and as a proto-Goth, witha taste for drugs and danger, half Lolita, half Lara Croft. Somehow theseconflicting images co-exist in our minds these days, and Alice's Adventures aimsto examine how this is possible and what it means.Will Brooker's earlier studies examined the "Star Wars" movies and Batman comicsas cultural properties, in particular as the focus of fan communities. Thisyoungish British professor of communications himself represents the current beauideal of cultural studies -- smart, theoretically sophisticated and widely readin traditional literature, yet most deeply fascinated by the zeitgeist ofcomputer games, web sites and blogs, movies, TV shows, pop songs and graphicnovels. Clearly of his time, our spike-haired lad tells us that he generallysports "a black military jacket and biker boots" and totes a rucksack, cellphone, Palm Pilot and water bottle. I suppose the look isn't really thatdifferent from a 19th-century scholar's gown and mortarboard -- and I wouldguess that Brooker is a terrific teacher. As it is, he grounds his critical workin shrewd common sense, writes clearly (even a bit stiffly) and explores animpressive range of Carroll and Alice-related phenomena -- biographies,newspaper articles, novels, films, computer games, new editions of the books,tourist sites and fan groups.To better focus his research, Brooker largely restricts himself to the 1990s, anunusually rich period for Alice materials. For instance, he surveys eightbiographical works, including Karoline Leach's controversial In the Shadow ofthe Dreamchild, a study that tries to prove that Dodgson was using visits toAlice and her sisters as a cover for an affair with their mother. He discussesHelen Oxenbury's illustrations as a successful attempt to portray Alice as acontemporary child while reaffirming her traditional wholesome image. He pointsout Gilbert Adair's successful emulation of Carroll's style -- down to the keyuse of italics -- in his novel Alice Through the Needle's Eye. He praisesJonathan Miller's made-for-TV movie "Alice in Wonderland" and, in particular,its imaginative association of the fantasy with the nostalgic glow ofWordsworth's "Immortality Ode": The film opens by describing a world with all"the glory and the freshness of a dream" and closes with the most melancholyline of English Romantic poetry, "The things which I have seen I now can see nomore." But then Brooker also spends a long chapter on the third-person, animatedshooter game "Dark Wonderland," with its psychologically tormented, sexuallyprovocative, knife-wielding heroine. In his last chapter he visits EuroDisney'sAlice attractions, several kitschy or neglected tourist sites and Dodgson'sOxford.All these manifestations of Alice are worthy of study, but my favorite sectionof Alice's Adventures is that devoted to the Lewis Carroll Society. I think thatanyone who belongs to a literary society or fan club -- whether one devoted toBuffy or William Faulkner, Jane Austen or the Sandman -- will recognize theaptness of Brooker's analysis and the accuracy of his reporting: "A key appealof fan groups is the sense of being part of a community, of sharing anenthusiasm with others who will understand." He notes that Lewis Carroll Societymembers "tend to talk and write like Lewis Carroll." Members gain respect andrank by their knowledge of textual minutiae, by their connoisseurship. Not onlythe Lewis Carroll Society, but all such groups like to visit "geographical sitesassociated with the author, actor, film series, singer or saga of interest."Devotion sometimes approaches the religious. Distant relatives or minor actorswill be treated reverently, as links to the venerated icon. Role-playingfrequently occurs at annual dinners or conventions, and there are attempts toreproduce meals, costumes and activities that are essentially Carrollian (orSherlockian, Chestertonian or Wodehousian). Not least, such sodalities work hardat curatorship and advocacy, establishing texts, promoting scholarship,spreading the word and sometimes setting guards against vulgar outsiders.Finally, the members are sensitive to being misjudged -- by the press, above all-- as cultists, nuts or eccentrics.Alice's Adventures makes a good companion to Robert Phillips's classic anthologyAspects of Alice, which covers the essentials of Wonderland scholarship betweenthe 1860s and 1960s. It also complements Martin Gardner's celebrated AnnotatedAlice, recently published in a "Definitive Edition." But the world of Alice istruly resistant to any reductionism: These are texts so rich that they cansupport every sort of critical investigation (or pseudo-critical indignity) andyet still remain ever fresh."We can see now," writes Brooker, "that the psychoanalytic interpretations ofthe Alice books in the 1930s were a product of a specific moment and movement,and the same is now obvious for the 1960s psychedelic readings. The discoursesthat I traced in 1990s journalism and in some biographies, that Carroll wasemotionally arrested, a repressed paedophile, an obsessive, stammering socialreject, a starched control freak, or a photographic voyeur -- and yet that hislegacy is an innocent, timeless, very English work of charming fantasy, suitablefor reissue to another generation of young readers -- have more to do with ourown attitudes to childhood and celebrity than they do to the culture Carrolllived through."At the end of Alice's Adventures, after the transvestite web sites and thecomputer shoot 'em ups and the tawdry gift shoppes, Brooker finally makes hisway to the city of Guildford: "The cemetery was almost silent; no people, just asoft bird trill and the wind rustling through willow. I found the grave easilyand sat beside it. 'Thy will be done,' reads the inscription on the horizontalof the white cross. At the base: 'Rev. Charles Lutwidge Dodgson (Lewis Carroll)Fell Asleep Jan 14 1898.' Asleep, to dream."It is somehow pleasingly Wonderlandish to imagine Brooker -- looking, as he oncetells us, more like a bouncer or security guard than a scholar -- payingreverent, if somewhat unexpected homage to this most elusive genius of Englishliterature. *Michael Dirda's email address is dirdam@washpost.com. His online discussion ofbooks takes place each Wednesday at 2 p.m. on washingtonpost.com.