Rep. Todd Akin's controversial comments on abortion and rape - and the MissouriRepublican's vow Tuesday to continue his U.S. Senate campaign - have givenDemocrats an opening on an issue on which they enjoy strong public support.In the past two days, party leaders in Washington and their supporters acrossthe country have highlighted Akin's comments to try to raise money, as part ofcampaign pitches and to revive the "war on women" theme that emerged this yearafter some Republicans came out against health-care coverage for contraception."If this isn't a war on women, I don't know what is," Sen. Barbara Mikulski(Md.), the dean of Democratic women in the Senate, said Tuesday in response toAkin's comments.In a televised interview that aired Sunday, Akin said that women had the powerto prevent pregnancies that result from "legitimate rape." In rare cases whenpregnancies occurred, he said, abortions still should not be allowed.Three-quarters of Americans support allowing abortion in cases of rape,according to Gallup polls. Among Republicans, there is broad opposition toabortion but disagreement over whether the practice ought to be allowed in someextreme cases.Many party leaders agree with permitting exceptions for rape and incest,including presidential candidate Mitt Romney, who on Tuesday called on Akin todrop his Senate bid.But antiabortion activists and some conservatives - including Rep. Paul Ryan(Wis.), Romney's running mate - consider that viewpoint inconsistent with theirbelief that abortion is murder.Sensing their vulnerability on the issue, Republicans continued Tuesday to tryto push Akin out of a Senate race that they have been counting on to help returnthem to the majority.Senate Minority Leader Mitch McConnell (R-Ky.) again called on Akin to drop outof the race, saying that he "made a deeply offensive error at a time when hiscandidacy carries great consequence for the future of our country." Romney saidAkin's comments were "offensive and wrong."Democrats moved Tuesday to tie congressional candidates across the country toAkin. The Democratic Congressional Campaign Committee noted that Akin was "farfrom alone" in his push to "redefine rape and limit victims' access to healthcare."In a message targeting Rep. Mike Coffman (R-Colo.), for instance, the DCCC saidhe "abused his power in Washington" by supporting Akin's calls for restrictionson abortion.In a House race in Nevada, Democrat Steven Horsford put out a statementdeclaring that during a failed 2010 Senate bid, his GOP opponent, DannyTarkanian, "tried to out-Tea Party his opponents by opposing abortion even inthe cases of rape and incest."Sen. Kirsten Gillibrand (D-N.Y.), who is pushing to have more women elected tothe Senate, asked her network of supporters to donate to Akin's opponent, Sen.Claire McCaskill (D-Mo.)."We've come to see how some right-wing Republicans will invent all sorts ofunfounded, far-fetched theories to support their ultraconservative ideologicalbeliefs," Gillibrand said in an e-mail to donors.On the presidential campaign trail, about two dozen protesters with MoveOn.org,a liberal group, picketed Tuesday in Carnegie, Pa., near a campaign rally heldby Ryan. The group carried signs reading "Ryan and Akin Agree: Only Some RapesCount," referencing bills sponsored by Akin and Ryan that would ban abortion inall cases and narrow the definition of rape.Elizabeth Schipp, political director of NARAL Pro-Choice America, an abortionrights group, said that Akin's comments would serve as "just one more tool inour arsenal to use against these anti-choice politicians."Before Sunday, NARAL had launched an "Obama Defector Program," designed to woowomen skeptical about Obama's reelection back into the fold by highlighting GOPpositions. Now, Schipp said, the project plans to call attention to severalvulnerable Republican congressional candidates, including Coffman, Rep. TimWalberg (R-Mich.) and Rep. Frank Guinta (R-N.H.)."Just when the Republicans are thinking and hoping that they've got this lickedand they can move on to other issues, somebody like Todd Akin gets up and sayssomething like that, and here we go again," Schipp said.Some conservatives rallied around Akin. Family Research Council President TonyPerkins faulted GOP leaders for trying to quickly shove Akin aside. He calledAkin's comments "indefensible" but noted that "when others have made mistakes,you haven't seen the entire Republican establishment abandon him. I think it'ssomewhat suspect."Perkins compared Akin's situation to that of former senator George Allen(R-Va.), who came under fire during his 2006 reelection campaign for calling anaide to his opponent "macaca" but did not face immediate calls to drop out.Phyllis Schlafly, founder of the conservative Eagle Forum, also invoked Allen'sfate. "They're making a big thing about an unfortunate remark," she said Monday,adding later that "the people of Missouri" should decide whether Akin stays inthe race.ed.okeefe@washingtonpost.comheldermanr@washpost.comHelderman reported from Tampa. Felicia Sonmez in Carnegie, Pa., contributed tothis report.