Brittney Griner just led Baylor to a 40-0 record and a national championship.She's an attractive woman with a quick smile, a well-spoken representative ofher university who is quick, in every interview, to deflect credit to herless-known - and less abused - teammates, and who will return for her senioryear in college rather than pursue a professional career.What a dreadful woman. Let's all pile on.Griner didn't ask to be 6 feet 8. She didn't ask for a low-pitched voice andsize 17 feet. Of course, those are perfectly good reasons for total strangers tospeculate about the gender of a 21-year-old college student.Shame on those who watched Griner play and whose sophisticated thought processesled them to that question. Shame on those who heard her voice and speculatedthat she might be a man, or had been a man, or might become a man. Shame onthose who have called her names and taunted her.I turned on WTEM-980 the other day and thought, "Who the heck is that squeakything?" before realizing it was me, on "The Tony Kornheiser Show." I've alwayshad a high voice. Not a thing I can do about it.Mike Tyson also has always had a high voice. No one ever thought he was a woman,or suggested he had been a woman, or that he might become a woman. Nothing thathas been said about Tyson has been half as nasty as the Griner talk, despite thefact that he was convicted of rape, blew through millions of dollars, tattooedhalf his face, and who knows what else.But let a woman's voice drop an octave and the gloves come off. Why does thatgive anyone the right to attack Griner? This has always puzzled me. Why in theworld do people care so much about something that affects them so little? Justcalm down.Of course we live in a country in which everyone is in everyone else's business,thanks to social media. We're just at a point in our history when toleranceseems to be at low tide. That's not a great combination.Sports is supposed to be an escape from that, not just one more outlet for us touse to attack what we don't understand and spew hate toward those who look orsound different than us.Every time I think we're past this, finally, I am reminded that we still have along way to go in this country before we can just appreciate a talent likeGriner's without looking for a way to explain it beyond her own God-givenabilities.For Tracee Hamilton's previous columns, go to washingtonpost.com/hamilton.