The Washington Redskins agreed to a contract yesterday with free agentdefensive tackle Darrell Russell, a two-time Pro Bowl selection with the OaklandRaiders who is trying to return to the NFL after having his promising careerderailed by off-the-field troubles that included a drug suspension and felonycharges in a rape case.The deal runs through the end of this season and will pay Russell, who visitedRedskins Park yesterday after meeting with Redskins owner Daniel Snyder inChicago on Tuesday night, slightly more than $790,000, a prorated portion of afull-season salary of $1.5 million. Russell, 27, is scheduled to practice withthe team today and play on Sunday at Dallas when the Redskins attempt to endtheir three-game losing streak.Coach Steve Spurrier said that Russell could participate in 15 to 25 playsagainst the NFC East-leading Cowboys."We're feeling each other out,'' Russell said. "It's not so much, 'Okay, I wanta year. I want to come here and show everybody what I can do and then get out.'Actually, I think Snyder is taking a big gamble with me because, I mean, look atmy past and look at the way everyone views me at this point. Whether they need a[defensive] tackle or not, I think people are on his back as it is. All I can dois be thankful to him and Spurrier for giving me this opportunity. I want totake advantage of it as much as possible."  Spurrier said he consulted withseveral of his players and assistant coaches while Redskins officialsdeliberated whether they would be comfortable having Russell on their team.Defensive end Regan Upshaw, a former teammate of Russell's in Oakland, andoffensive coordinator Hue Jackson, whose tenure as an assistant coach at USCbriefly overlapped Russell's stay at the school, offered endorsements."It was a team decision, an organization decision," Spurrier said. "Everybody Italked to said, 'Coach, if we can sign this guy, let's sign him.' He's neverbeen convicted of anything except having ecstasy in his system, which got himsuspended from the NFL. We feel like after meeting him and getting to know him alittle bit, he's worthy of a second chance and getting his life straightenedout. He's on a one-year deal without a whole bunch of money involved. We hope hecan play ball and get his life straightened out and get back on course."Russell said he hadn't planned to agree to a contract yesterday when he beganhis visit to the club's training facility in Ashburn, accompanied by familymembers and his new agent, Gary Wichard. Vinny Cerrato, the Redskins' vicepresident of football operations, rode on Snyder's private jet to pick upRussell and his entourage in Los Angeles and accompanied them to Chicago, whereSnyder is attending an NFL owners' meeting, and then back to the Washingtonarea."I did not think I would be signing this early," said Russell, 6 feet 5, 325pounds, who was selected by the Raiders with the second overall choice in the1997 draft. "I wanted to shop around -- see what's going on, see where everyoneis at, see where I could fit in best. Maybe I'm just really anxious to get back.. . . I just felt an energy here that I would be very excited to contribute to."Russell said he had been planning to visit the Cowboys next. The Green BayPackers, Tampa Bay Buccaneers and Philadelphia Eagles also were interested inhim, according to one NFL source. But the Redskins were the most aggressive ofthe clubs pursuing Russell, who was released by the Raiders on Monday afterbeing reinstated by the NFL from a suspension for violating the league'ssubstance abuse policy. He reportedly tested positive for ecstasy.He was charged with 25 felony counts stemming from a January 2002 incident inwhich he allegedly videotaped a woman while she was being raped by two of hisfriends. But prosecutors, citing a lack of evidence, dropped all the charges inSeptember 2002. Russell also was arrested on suspicion of drunk driving,reportedly just after leaving a legal brothel in Nevada, while on suspensionfrom the NFL and awaiting his rape trial."We may take a bad hit P.R.-wise," Spurrier said. "But he's not been convictedof the charges made against him. There are a lot of players in this league whohad a lot more serious charges against them than what he had. It's prettyserious [but] he's not in jail, is he? The NFL says he can play. When the NFLsays he's eligible to play, he's eligible to play, and they're pretty thoroughon who can play and who can't."Russell said he is "very concerned'' about gaining the acceptance of his newteammates."I'm sure they're going to have their questions, and I have no problem inanswering those," he said. "After all, this is their team. I'm trying out fortheir team. Either they'll accept me or not, but it's not up to me. All I can dois be me, play hard and do whatever I can to help this team out and help themhave success in their goal to go to the Super Bowl. It's up to them to decidewhether they want me to stay or not."The Redskins are winless since Sept. 28 and have been searching for answers, andwere in need of help on their defensive line."I give him three weeks and he'll be flying," Upshaw said. "He's a good dude. .. . I think he's grown, and hopefully he's up to the challenge. . . . He can beone of the best players in the NFL. He has that kind of talent."Said Redskins defensive end Renaldo Wynn: "From what I know of him, he's a goodguy. He's had some unfortunate situations, but everyone deserves a secondchance."Russell became an unrestricted free agent when he cleared waivers Tuesday. Noteam wanted to claim him and be responsible for a prorated portion of the $10million salary that he was to have this season under the terms of his contractwith the Raiders.Staff writer Mark Maske will answer questions about the Redskins online today at10:45 a.m. at www.washingtonpost.com/liveonline. Excerpts of Darrell Russell'snews conference can be found at www.washingtonpost.com/sports.