NBC has moved an episode of its drama series about sex-crime victims - in whichMike Tyson is a guest star - so as not to air on the eve of a global eventsupporting survivors of rape and abuse.The episode of "Law & Order: SVU" that was originally scheduled to air Feb. 13has been moved to Feb. 6.The airdate was changed after rape survivor Marcie Kaveney created a petition onChange.org asking NBC to recast Tyson's role. She told The TV Column last weekthat she did so after learning about the casting and the airdate - which was onthe eve of the event One Billion Rising."As soon as I saw it [in a news report], I just saw red," Kaveney, who now worksas a rape-crisis advocate in Fort Myers, Fla., told The TV Column.Tyson was arrested in 1991 and charged with raping then-18-year-old Miss BlackAmerica pageant competitor Desiree Washington; he was convicted and served threeyears of a six-year prison sentence.In Kaveney's petition - which has more than 7,000 signatures on Change.org - sherequests that NBC "re-consider casting convicted rapist, Mike Tyson."Tyson has finally weighed in on the petition, insisting that it's a "differenceof opinion.""I'm sorry that she's not happy," he said of Kaveney, in an interview with TVGuide, adding: "I didn't rape nobody or do anything like that, and this ladywasn't there to know if I did or not.""Since I'm clean and sober five years, I haven't broken any laws or did anycrimes," he said.Tyson also provided some details of his "SVU" character, which NBC declined togive earlier. Tyson plays a death-row inmate who was a victim of childhood abuseand who murdered one of his abusers.Tyson said he was coached by his support team about what to say during theinterview because "they feel I can't handle this stuff." He added: "I'm happywith myself. I'm not on drugs. I'm not drinking. I'm not making a big fool ofmyself again. I'm trying really hard, you know?"NBC had not returned e-mails and a phone call seeking comment at press time.'Met Your Mother,' 9.0CBS was finally able Wednesday to make it official: "How I Met Your Mother" iscoming back for one, final - and this time they mean it - season.All series regulars - Josh Radnor, Jason Segel, Cobie Smulders, Neil PatrickHarris and Alyson Hannigan, and show creators Carter Bays and Craig Thomas -will be back for a ninth season, at the end of which, CBS swears, thedad/narrator will reveal (while telling the longest of bedtime stories) who momis in this narrative.Not that it matters, because dad's kids were, several seasons ago, doomed toyears of therapy. Because let's face it: Over its nearly eight seasons to date,Dad has been something of a hound dog, and don't even get us started on the momcandidates.Speaking to TV critics several weeks ago at Winter TV Press Tour 2013 inPasadena, Calif., CBS programming chief Nina Tassler warned that a ninth-seasonannouncement was imminent.Squeezing a ninth season out of this sitcom was a priority for CBS. Despite allthe "long in the tooth" blah, blah, blah from The Reporters Who CoverTelevision, "HIMYM" last season (its seventh) scored its best numbers ever amongviewers (nearly 10 million of them), as well as in the 18-to-49-year-old and18-to-34-year-old viewer demographics. Most important, "HIMYM" has the youngestmedian age of any CBS series: 44.2 years.Returning "HIMYM" became even more important to CBS this fall when the freshmanMonday comedy "Partners" crashed and burned early, and the network's midseasoncomedy "Friend Me" plunged into limbo with the death of one of its co-creators.'Katie's' pickupSix days after Katie Couric's much-ballyhooed interview with Notre Damelinebacker Manti Te'o - about his love affair with fake girlfriend Lennay Kekua- Disney's TV syndication division rewarded Couric with a formal second-seasonpickup on her new daytime talk show.That news didn't surprise Couric nearly as much as Lennay's phone call from thedead surprised Te'o, given that Couric's show already had a two-year deal withABC-owned TV stations across the country.That said, it's worth noting that "Katie" is the top-rated new syndicated talkshow among viewers of all ages, as well as in the key 25-to-54-year-old chickdemographic group so important to daytime TV. And that the Jan. 24 interviewwith Te'o and his parents scored 30 percent bigger ratings than the show's priorfour-week average.Sadly, "Katie's" original exec producer, Jeff Zucker, has departed to go shakethings up at CNN, and Michael Morrison joined late last month.And in other Te'o news: Roniah Tuiasosopo, the guy behind Fake Lennay Kekua,will bare all to Oprah protege Dr. Phil on his daytime talker Thursday andFriday. He's going to say his was the voice talking to Te'o all those hours onthe phone, when Te'o thought he was talking to a woman, and that he was deeply,romantically in love with the football star.demoraesl@washpost.comTo read previous columns by Lisa de Moraes, go to washingtonpost.com/tvblog.