Applying for a job at Wal-Mart? Be prepared to disclose everything about yoursordid past.That's the new drill at the mega-retailer, which will start running criminalbackground checks on applicants this fall. The company said it has no plans torun checks on its thousands of current employees.The retailer's announcement this month triggered a wave of discussion andsurprise, but it probably shouldn't have.According to a study released by the Society for Human Resource Management inJanuary, 80 percent of 270 companies surveyed -- which included manufacturing,insurance and retail industries, among others -- say they conduct criminalbackground checks on employees. That's up from 51 percent in 1996.Why the increase? Employees in government contracting and defense have alwayshad to go through stringent background checks. But, as we keep being told, theworld changed after Sept. 11, 2001, and many companies like Wal-Mart seem to betrying to keep up with it. But there's more. Lawsuits against companies foremployee behavior have increased. And background-check technology has made theprocess cheaper and easier.The Bentonville, Ark., retailer isn't saying much about why it began testing theprocess a year ago. It was part of a "standard review we do on all practices andpolicies," said spokesman Gus Whitcomb.But the announcement comes on the heels of two sexual assault cases involvingWal-Mart employees and children. In both cases, the accused molesters hadearlier convictions related to sexual offenses, something that would likely havebeen caught with a criminal background check."Typically, in part because it was time-consuming and cost-prohibitive,[retailers] restricted [background checks] to key positions or those who hadaccess to high levels of cash," said Daniel Butler, vice president of retailoperations at the National Retail Federation. "What we're seeing over time is atool that is becoming more available and more affordable."Usually, larger organizations set up a kiosk or computer terminal in theirhiring department to do the checks. Potential employees enter their name, dateof birth, Social Security number and current and former addresses.The background software checks the information given against several databasesto look for arrest records. That information automatically goes back to thehiring manager, according to James E. Lee, chief marketing officer atChoicePoint Inc. near Atlanta.ChoicePoint has been named by several sources as the company that will doWal-Mart's checks, but neither Wal-Mart nor ChoicePoint would confirm this."In . . . such a litigious society, I'm blown away they weren't doing backgroundchecks on frontline employees, the ones who have contact with the public. From aliability perspective, that's amazing," said Jared Callahan, sales director atEmployment Screening Resources, a human resource consulting firm thatspecializes in background screenings.Although the thought of a criminal check may leave some shaking in their shoes,it doesn't necessarily mean they won't be able to sell, well, shoes. Companiesthat do checks typically disqualify people based on specifics. So if someone hasa DUI conviction, companies like Wal-Mart will probably still let them selldiscount stone-washed jeans and camouflage parkas. Of course, they probablywon't have much luck getting a job driving a truck.But some people wonder whether such checks are legal.According to the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission, while doing backgroundchecks is legal, the company has to be careful that its disqualification ofthose with records does not translate into racial discrimination, as has beenargued in courts, said Dianna Johnston, assistant legal counsel at the EEOC.According to an EEOC policy guidance, "since the use of arrest records as anabsolute bar to employment has a disparate impact on some protected groups, suchrecords alone cannot be used to routinely exclude persons from employment."Wal-Mart has emphasized that it would follow state law. But in a recentstatement, the company said that any employee found to have lied on anapplication regarding a criminal past will be disqualified for the job."We actually get a lot of complaints and questions from those subject tobackground checks," said Beth Givens, director of the Privacy RightsClearinghouse. "People are concerned that maybe a criminal conviction that hasbeen expunged might be found and impact them. They are concerned that perhapssomething they did in their youth could come up in the check."In one instance reported to the Privacy Rights Clearinghouse, a 49-year-oldengineer was fired from his job because a background check reported there was anoutstanding warrant for his arrest. After he spent hours trying to find thesource of the inaccurate information, he learned a background-check company hadconfused him with a much younger man with a similar name and of a differentrace.The company refused to change its report and the court refused to change thefile. The employee was not able to get his job back. The best this victim coulddo, according to Givens, was to obtain a letter, which he must carry with him tojob searches, from the state attorney general saying there is no outstandingwarrant for his arrest.And he'll probably need that letter, no matter where he applies."Employers are risk-averse, so they don't want to hire someone who might causethem to be sued on down the line because of sexual harassment or identityfraud," Givens said. "I think employers are much more cautious than five yearsago."Join Amy Joyce from 11 a.m. to noon Tuesday at www.washingtonpost.com to discussyour life at work. You can e-mail her at lifeatwork@washpost.com.