For 11 days of the 14-day Occupy Wall Street march from New York's Zuccotti Parkto Washington last month, I joined dozens of protesters as they trekked throughrainstorms and 30-degree chill. They slept in tents; ate handouts of Halloweencandy and peanut-butter-and-jelly sandwiches; and endured severe shinsplints,knee injuries and catcalls of "Get a job!" They argued among themselves as muchas with others they met along the way.As this odyssey ended, I thought about the public perception of the Occupymovement and about the Occupiers I'd met on the road. There is the Occupy shownby the news media, defined by police clashes and a lack of hygiene - images thattell non-Occupiers that the movement is leaderless, chaotic and on its way out.But as the marchers passed through towns large and small, and ordinary Americanscame out of their homes and businesses to give food, money and words of support,it became clear that this movement isn't going away.Since its encampments are being shut down by local authorities across thecountry, the movement is now Occupying by walking rather than staying put. Andanother march, which departed Thursday from the Martin Luther King Jr. memorialin Washington, plans to travel more than 600 miles to the civil rights leader'sgrave site in Atlanta.Certainly, Occupy Wall Street protesters have different ideas about themovement's mission. Many of the marchers I met even disagreed on the purpose oftheir trek - some thought it was about getting to Washington to protest the"supercommittee"; others thought it was about visiting other Occupations.But here are four who, in different ways, represent what the movement wants:direct democracy, accountable leadership, and a country that listens toeveryone's voice and believes in second chances.Kelley Brannon,  27, an organizer of the march, says she intended for thejourney to spread pure democracy, a form of decision-making in which everyperson votes on every decision, as widely as possible.On Nov. 17, Day 9 of the march, Brannon calls for a general assembly to recruitnew Occupiers along the highway near North East, Md."We need to have a general assembly now," she says. "It's our last chance in thelight."Another marcher objects: "We said we'd do general assemblies when we are donefor the day. We aren't done.""I'm going to move to split the march into groups," Brannon responds. "One groupwho came here for the original purpose and one who came here for somethingelse!"The group does not split up. But along the way, it loses a handful of marchers -and picks up many more.Brannon had been camped in Zuccotti Park since Sept. 17, heeding Adbusters' callover the summer to Occupy Wall Street on that date. She's a natural leader in aleaderless movement, and her attempts to be in control don't sit well with a lotof the marchers, especially since she's hardly the diplomatic sort. (At aDunkin' Donuts near Philadelphia, she tells someone holding a coffee: "I thinkthe fact that we're supporting giant corporations is pretty disgusting.")Before Brannon started Occupying, she spent her time in New York creating filmsand multimedia art - and, to pay her rent, making sandwiches at a cafe. "I'mmaking the same money I made in high school 10 years ago," she says, laughingbitterly.She later tells me that her art will be featured this month in a New York coffeeshop, where she plans to charge less than $100 for each piece."I don't make art for the 1 percent," she says. "So I'm not going to charge 1percent prices."That is, if she sells them at all."I'm a really bad artist because I don't like selling my work. It feels like I'mselling myself," she says.After the march, Brannon returned to New York, where she is taking a break fromOccupy to edit her footage of the journey.Ephraim Cruz doesn't say anything about the pot-smoking, the dozen homelesspeople stealing protesters' food or the rape investigation that was announcedjust after we arrived at Occupy Philadelphia, one of the East Coast's roughestencampments. But after night falls on Day 6 of the march, a young man at thesite gets in another's face, holds his collar and demands money. Cruz steps in."You take your thuggin' and buggin' somewhere else," he says to the aggressor.The kid backs off."And you," Cruz says, turning to the other, "if you owe him money, pay up."Cruz, in his late 30s, says he got his sense of justice growing up in the Bronxas one of seven children raised by a single mother who eked by on socialprograms. Since age 18, he has been an auxiliary officer in the New York PoliceDepartment, a U.S. Border Patrol agent, a candidate for the Arizona state Houseof Representatives and a campaigner for Barack Obama.But Cruz has always been an idealist, and in recent years he thought that thegovernment just kept coming up short. In 2004, he became a whistleblower againstthe Border Patrol, alleging that the agency mistreated immigrants caughtcrossing the U.S.-Mexico border.In 2009, he grew disenchanted with President Obama after the health-care fight.And on the morning after the NYPD's Nov. 15 raid on Zuccotti Park, Cruz callshis other former employer a "legal gang."Cruz doesn't finish the march, disappearing after Baltimore, two days before thegroup reaches Washington. Like the leaders who had disappointed him before, themarch co-organizers didn't hold themselves accountable, he thought, giving himno choice but to leave them behind, too.Cruz has returned to New York, where he's a major player with Occupy the Bronx.Cologino Rivera, 21, gets a lot of laughs among his fellow marchers for hisaccent, which brings to mind the ersatz Kazakh star of the 2006 mockumentary"Borat." Rivera laughs along with the jokes, quickly assuming the role of thegroup's jester. When I ask him early on what he'll do after the march, he quipsthat he'll go to Miami to "occupy the beach."A few days later, Rivera gets more serious. He says he was inspired to joinOccupy after months of working 60-hour weeks as a waiter in Owego, N.Y."Sometimes when I look at my check, it makes me want to cry," he says. At age15, he   left Mexico - a country "in a very depressed state, [where] jobs arescarce" - for the land of opportunity, but he quickly found that it didn'talways live up to its promise.He says he left his country because his family members inexplicably kept gettingshot. "I think it's wonderful in America that people can't just get away withanything," he says. In Mexico, no one was charged with his uncle's shooting.Here, maybe it would have been different.On Day 4, at a rest stop somewhere past Trenton, N.J., Rivera addresses the fullgroup for the first time. "I have an announcement," he says.The group giggles.He tries again: "I'm trying to talk!"More laughing."Listen, I understand I have an accent. This is not news to me! I immigratedhere more than five years ago."His voice rises and quiet seeps in."You need to listen to my voice, not my accent! You need to have respect."Finally, a space for Rivera to get serious: "Now, I will start a list ofnecessary needs for the march . . .""This is good," a marcher says to me, smiling. "He feels empowered."Rivera joined the marchers who left Washington for Atlanta on Thursday.Melvin Hicks frequently gets impatient as personalities clash and tensions risealong the march."I don't think this group is ready for a day of action!" Hicks says, his wordsslurring as he gets angry, speaking through missing teeth. "If we can't come toone issue to agree upon, we are no better than the people in Washington."Hicks dislikes the journalists who show up along the way, the long discussionsabout changing the marchers' route. He dislikes stopping for breaks at all. Hisonly detour: On Day 11, en route to Baltimore, he scrawls "We are the 99percent" in freshly poured sidewalk concrete.But like many others who are frustrated, Hicks isn't about to leave the march.Hicks, who is in his early 30s, says he was convicted more than a decade ago ofdrug trafficking, joining the 3 percent of Americans who have been convicted ofa felony, and he's had trouble finding a job because of his criminal past. Henow works as an electrician.When asked why he's marching, he says, "I want America not to judge me for mypast, but for my future."On a night when another marcher is smoking a joint, Hicks doesn't partake. Hedoesn't drink, either, even when the other marchers get beers in Maryland on aFriday night. Hicks - much like the Occupy movement - wants to do something morethan just get arrested. "I got to rise for what I believe in," he says. "BecauseI know we are doing the right thing."After the march, Hicks, who does not have a phone or an e-mail address, couldnot be found.elizabeth.flock@washingtonpost.comElizabeth Flock is a blogger for The Washington Post's BlogPost. For a galleryof photos from the New York-to-Washington march, visit washingtonpost.com/outlook.Read more from Outlook, friend us on Facebook, and follow us on Twitter.