Dealing with unwanted personal comments in the office can be dicey because oneperson's welcomed compliment can be deemed harassment by another.QI work at a very relaxed research facility in a small community. Part of itscharm is that the people are friendly, ask about family, and it's very"non-corporate." My problem is that an older man at work -- I am in mymid-twenties and he is in his forties -- keeps complimenting me about how I lookand how I smell. I find it inappropriate. Many of the women close to his agewelcome his compliments. Once he prefaced a compliment by saying, "You're notgoing to get me with harassment, are you?" He laughed, then commented how good Ismelled and was very flirty with his tone. He's never tried anything, and theseincidents have occurred perhaps a dozen times in three years.I am usually very assertive, but this is a very laid-back workplace. How do Ihandle this the next time he says something? I don't want to be seen as a"problem employee."ARebecca Hastings, who answers employment questions for the Society for HumanResource Management in Alexandria, said the key thing to remember in situationslike this is that "harassment is in the eye of the beholder" and that justbecause some women may not be offended by this co-worker's comments does notmean that all women appreciate them.Hastings said that the next time this occurs, the woman "can gently let the guyknow how she feels. . . . She can say, 'Remember when you asked if your commentswere harassment? Well, I'd hate for it to get to that, but sometimes the way youtalk to me makes me uncomfortable.' That way you've put him on notice with anhonest, sincere statement," she said. "There's a right way and a wrong way toget a point across."Hastings said that if the man persists, she then can "gently remind him thatwe're not going to make such comments" and that if it occurs beyond that "to bemore firm. Women are not there to be visual attractions. They're there to work."-- Kenneth BredemeierE-mail your workplace questions to Kenneth Bredemeier atbredemeier@washpost.com. Discuss workplace issues with him at 11 a.m. Wednesdayat www.washingtonpost.com/liveonline.