CRIMINALS SEEMED to have hijacked Prince George's County three years ago. Therewere two carjackings a day and more than three murders a week. Rapes andburglaries  were out of hand. The police chief at the time didn't help byconcluding that the problem was lazy officers. One fed-up resident, no doubtspeaking for many, wrote in early 2006 in The Post, "When my neighbors and Ihear those numbers, we wonder if this really is where we want to live, where wewant to bring up our children." Since then, the county has achieved a remarkableturnaround. At a time when crime is rising in some neighboring jurisdictions,the violence continues to wane in Prince George's. The county is safer than it'sbeen in years as a result of an injection of resources from the countygovernment and improved communication between officers and residents.The drop in crime has occurred across the board: Assaults, robberies, propertycrimes and homicides are all down by more than 20 percent since 2005.Carjackings, which had reached epidemic levels, have plummeted an astonishing 60percent. Only burglary has inched upward.There's no single reason for the drop, but increased funding, a priority ofCounty Executive Jack B. Johnson (D), has been instrumental. The policedepartment's budget has grown by about 77 percent, to $256.6 million, sincefiscal 2003, according to the county Office of Management and Budget. Policestaffing has increased by about 450 positions, to 2,132. A larger, better-fundedforce has arrested 40 percent more suspects since 2005.Other factors that have contributed: Justice Department scrutiny has improvedthe training of new officers; the county government has limited liquor storehours and shut down illegal nightclubs; and police officials have worked withproperty owners in high-crime areas to make apartments and businesses moresecure. Acting Police Chief Roberto L. Hylton, who took over the force lastsummer, gets crime updates every 15 minutes and seems to have brought neededenergy to the department.Even Chief Hylton acknowledges, however, that the perception of the departmentcontinues to lag reality. As one wary resident told The Post's Aaron C. Davis,"It's too soon for me to feel any safer." Any amount of crime is too much, andpotential public safety cuts, brought by a county budget deficit, may threatensome of the  gains. Still, residents should take pride and comfort in thereduction in crime.Do you have a different view of this issue? Weigh in with a member of theeditorial board today at http://www.washingtonpost.com/editorialjudgment/.