Legendary Penn State football coach Joe Paterno said, "I did what I was supposedto." In fact, nobody at Penn State did what basic human decency requires - andas a result, according to prosecutors, an alleged sexual predator who could havebeen stopped years ago was allowed to continue molesting young boys.The arrest Saturday of Jerry Sandusky, the school's former defensivecoordinator, on felony child sex abuse charges, involving at least eightvictims, has sent university officials scrambling to justify a pattern ofself-serving inattention and inaction.University Vice President Gary Schultz and Athletic Director Tim Curley alsoface charges - for failing to report what they knew about Sandusky and forallegedly perjuring themselves before a grand jury. Both proclaim theirinnocence. After an emergency meeting of the university Board of Trustees, itwas announced Sunday that the two officials would be stepping away from theirjobs.Penn State President Graham Spanier has said that Schultz and Curley have his"unconditional support." If he believes the way they acted was right, or evenremotely acceptable, then he needs to go, too - as does Paterno, who can onlydestroy his legacy by hanging on and trying to excuse the inexcusable.Assuming that even half of what Pennsylvania Attorney General Linda Kellyalleges is true, Sandusky is a patient and calculating pedophile who used hisinsider status with the glamorous Penn State football program to lure boys asyoung as 10. Sandusky allegedly met his victims through the Second Mile, acharity he founded that provides programs for troubled - and vulnerable - youth.The investigation that led to the charges was launched in 2009 after the motherof a boy - a Second Mile participant - reported allegations of sexual assault toofficials at a high school where Sandusky, now 67, volunteered. But Penn Stateofficials knew at least 11 years earlier that there were disturbing questionsabout physical contact between Sandusky and young boys.In 1998, Sandusky was famous in the college football world as the defensivewizard who gave Penn State the nickname "Linebacker U," and he was oftenmentioned as Paterno's likely successor.That year, the university police department conducted what a grand jury reportcalls a "lengthy investigation" of allegations that Sandusky had hugged, rubbedagainst and inappropriately touched two 11-year-old boys while they were nakedwith him in the showers of a Penn State locker room.Detectives listened in as the mother of one of the boys called Sandusky toconfront him. According to the grand jury report, Sandusky told her: "Iunderstand. I was wrong. I wish I could get forgiveness. I know I won't get itfrom you. I wish I were dead."The local district attorney declined to prosecute, and the investigation wasclosed. Paterno was Sandusky's immediate boss, and Curley was Paterno's. Perhapsall who were involved did, in the narrowest sense, what they were "supposed to."But imagine how much better it would have been if someone had done the rightthing and taken that 1998 incident seriously - better for the victims, but alsobetter for the university's reputation and ultimately better for Sanduskyhimself.It gets much worse: In 2002, after Sandusky had retired - although he still hadan office and enjoyed the run of the Penn State athletic facilities - a footballteam "graduate assistant" saw Sandusky raping a young boy in the showers,according to the grand jury report.The assistant - widely identified in news reports as Mike McQueary, a formerPenn State quarterback who is now the team's wide receivers coach and toprecruiter - told Paterno what he had seen. Paterno told Curley. The assistantwas eventually summoned to a meeting with Curley and Schultz at which he says hedescribed the rape in graphic detail.The two officials claim they were only told about behavior that was "not thatserious." They took it seriously enough, however, to decree that Sandusky couldno longer bring Second Mile children into the football building.But they "never attempted to learn the identity of the child in the shower,"according to the grand jury. "No one from the university did so."Unbelievable.According to the grand jury, the assistant, Paterno, Curley, Schultz and Spanierall knew about the incident. Each covered his own behind. None lifted a fingerto find out who the alleged victim was or what had become of him.Tell us again: How did you do everything you were supposed to do?The writer will answer questions at 2 p.m. today at www.washingtonpost.com. Hise-mail address is eugenerobinson@washpost.com