This was Mark Emmert's moment, the most important news conference of the NCAApresident's career, the one time he could stand on a podium and send aresounding message that his organization mattered in the real world. And hefailed.The NCAA president dropped the ball by not forbidding Penn State to playfootball for at least a year in the wake of a child sexual abuse scandal, atragedy that went all the way to the top of the university and its main cashcow, Joe Paterno's poisoned program.Emmert took away money and scholarshipsand all but congratulated himself and theorganization for administering what he called "unprecedented" penalties,punitive measures that went far and beyond, he said, the NCAA's sentencingguidelines. But he let the games go on.He merely showed us the same thing the late Paterno, former Penn State presidentGraham Spanier and two functionaries now facing criminal charges for their rolesin the cover-up showed us: that no matter how heinous the scandal, collegefootball must go on.With Monday's decision not to pull the plug on the Penn State program, Emmertand the NCAA essentially said that grade-fixing and paying players in the 1980s- violations that led to the "death penalty" shutdown of Southern Methodist'sfootball program for two seasons - was more egregious than former defensivecoordinator Jerry Sandusky molesting pre-pubescent boys in the footballbuilding's showers even after Paterno and others  received eyewitness accountsof the behavior.Never has Emmert and his ineffective bureaucracy looked so afraid of the majorcolleges who line their coffers and pay their salaries. Never has a $60 millionfine seemed driven by public relations.Yes, that money will go to organizations committed to the restoration of victimsof child sexual abuse. But Penn State, the second-highest-grossing program inAmerica, will essentially be able to pay that fine by having a 2012 season.What Emmert did was not a complete slap on the wrist. Punishing Paternoposthumously, vacating every Penn State victory after Louis Freeh's independentreport concluded the late coach was part of the cover-up, was important. For itlet Jay Paterno and every last say-it-isn't-so-Joe loyalist know that theirfallen icon - the coach who passed Eddie Robinson to become the Division Icareer leader in wins last October - now has fewer wins than Bobby Bowden andBear Bryant, among others. Joe Pa isn't No. 1. There. Given what we know now, ofcourse, he never was.The one tangible penalty was the drastic reduction in scholarships. Eighty-fiveplayers used to have their tuition, room and board at Penn State paid for. Now,just 65 kids have full-ride deals. That means Penn State will not be competitivewith Ohio State, Michigan or anyone else with tradition and talent in the BigTen for years to come.That's almost as much salt on an open wound in State College as Paterno's statuebeing taken down and put in storage somewhere in the stadium. To the zealots whosaw Joe Pa and football as their religion, that's akin to the ark of covenantbeing pushed into a nondescript warehouse at the end of "Raiders of the LostArk."But Emmert didn't go far enough. Penn State needed to lose football for at leasta year. Saturdays in Happy Valley needed to remain silent for a fall. No NittanyLion paraphernalia needed to be sold, no steaks and sausage needed to crackle onthe grill outside Beaver Stadium.Look, innocent people who had nothing to do with the scandal were going to behurt. Every college football community suffers collateral damage when theirprogram goes awry, but none went awry like this one. The paragon of virtue thatPenn State and Paterno represented - among all the shady boosters paying Miamikids, all the lying and cover-up associated with Jim Tressel at Ohio State - wasa big lie, a ruse that ruined other children's lives.After no one went to off-campus police at Penn State when they knew a kid ofmaybe 10 was raped in the showers, after those same people never even tried tofind out what became of that kid, the prism through which we view all evil incollege athletics changed forever.That's why the facade of Pleasantville needed to go away. Having footballSaturdays return to campus in any fashion was giving the university back itsmost sacred possession, the main commodity that made grown men protect a programbefore a child."There are no actions we can take that will take away their pain and anguish,"Emmert said of the victims, rationalizing later the decision to let footballcontinue at Penn State.This was his moment. And he and the NCAA, no matter how unprecedented thesanctions appear, failed when they didn't take away one football season from theuniversity.His organization stood toothlessly on the sideline while a former FBI director'slaw firm did his homework for him, amassing millions of documents and testimonythat showed a star chamber of men covered up child sexual abuse at a big-timecollege football powerhouse.All the things deemed so consequential in Emmert's world - appeasing theanti-BCS jihad, expanding the NCAA men's basketball tournament, making sureevery kid accused of getting a free breakfast or his parents' free airlinetickets was investigated to the fullest - now seemed trite compared to whathappened in Happy Valley.In their little world, Emmert and the NCAA were seen as stern. In the realworld, they cowered at the idea of taking Penn State off all those 2012 Big Tenschedules. Sadly, they let the season go and and made sure college footballremained king.wisem@washpost.comFor Mike Wise's previous columns, visit washingtonpost.com/wise.More on the Penn State sanctions:Sanctions include bowl ban, $60M fineHard Hits: Time to fix thingsHamilton: NCAA shows surprising muscleAudio: LaVar Arrington's reactionPaterno family: 'A panicked response'Players must decide whether to playOn Leadership: O'Brien's tough road aheadPhotos: The Penn State scandalEarly Lead: Too harsh or too lenient