He kept the capsule in a brown plastic pill bottle inside his briefcase, butnobody knew. He might have brought it to the courtroom for all seven days of histrial, or he might have had it only on the final day. It was probably a singledose, though he might have used more. He would have known precisely how much tomeasure out and he would have known to empty out a gelatin capsule to containthe white crystalline powder because otherwise you couldn't swallow it withoutthe horrible, acrid taste that would make you vomit.They had all watched him for seven days, but he never spoke. For seven days thejury of eight men and four women had heard his life dissected, his innermostthoughts exposed, his hurts, his fears, his childish neediness, and even hisviolent sexual fantasies that apparently drove him to become a stalker.When the terrorist attacks struck America on September 11, the judge told thejury that the Howard County Circuit Court might be shut down the next day andthat they could stay home. But the jurors voted unanimously to come in anyway tohear the closing arguments and to try to render the verdict in Case No.13-K-00-39426, State of Maryland vs. Alan Bruce Chmurny.Alan Chmurny was a 57-year-old scientist, a brilliant organic chemist whostudied with a Nobel laureate professor at UCLA, then accumulated some 15patents in his own name for chemical processes that he developed in threedecades with several major pharmaceutical companies and start-ups. He had becomea highly regarded vice president of a Maryland biotechnology company.At 22, he had married a woman who was seven years older and had been histeacherwhen he graduated with top honors from the University of Illinois. Theywent off to UCLA together, where, just after they arrived in 1966, she gavebirth to their only child, a daughter. He stayed married to her for 35 years,leading a seemingly normal and successful life, living in a comfortable house ona beautiful wooded acre in Frederick, with a retirement place in Colorado. Hiswife, also a highly accomplished chemist, testified on his behalf, saying thatall these hideous accusations could not possibly be true.As he sat day after day at the defense table, everyone studied him intently forclues. In the jury box, James Anderson was struck by how frustrated thedefendant seemed. Eileen Newburn told her fellow jurors that he seemed unusuallycool, unusually calm, as if he were keeping himself under control by sheer forceof will. In the audience, Matthew Campbell, a veteran prosecutor who waswatching parts of the trial, thought the defendant came across as particularlyimmature, stamping his feet, shaking his head or throwing down his pencil whenhe did not agree with his own lawyer or with a witness. At the bench, courtreporter Shirley Reynolds also was struck by his demeanor, passing a note to acolleague that said, "He's not helping his case, acting like a know-it-all."Chmurny did not testify in his own defense. But privately, over the four longyears he stood accused of a series of escalating crimes, he had forcefullypresented to his wife, his daughter, his closest friend, his succession oflawyers, his probation officers and his court-ordered psychologists the detailedelements of his version of reality.This whole case, he repeatedly insisted, was based on a series of Kafkaesquemisunderstandings and wrong-doing by the police, by the court system and mostlyby his young coworker Marta Bradley and her husband. Chmurny said he had onlybeen trying to be friends. In fact, he said, it was she who had come on to him,but now she was trying to hurt him because he had resisted her advances. Hisgenerosity, his openness, his quirky sense of humor had been horriblymisinterpreted. The incriminating notes and other evidence found in his basementby the police were not his, but were mailed to him anonymously. He had neverfollowed her home. Never stalked her. Never stole and duplicated her keys. Neverbroke into her house. Never stole her jewelry and lingerie. Never walked offwith bags of her household garbage. And certainly, certainly never tried topoison her by pouring mercury into the air vents of her car.That, to him, was the most ridiculous of all these absurd charges against him,the charge of attempted murder. How foolish to think that he, a chemist of vastand varied experience, would use something so amateurish and easily detectable.It made no sense that he would use mercury, he told them, because he knew manyother ways, many chemicals that would work much better if you wanted to hurtsomeone or kill them without getting caught."I will never believe it was true. Not even a chance, to my dying day," RobertKupper says of Chmurny's crimes. Kupper, the vice president of a majorpharmaceutical firm, knew him for 17 years, worked with him, fished with him,went on joint family vacations, and considered Alan Chmurny his best friend. Hecalls him "a fun-loving guy; absolutely loved fly-fishing, horseback riding,hiking in the mountains . . . A very fair-minded guy, moderate on some issues,reasonably liberal on others . . . born and raised in Chicago; a consummate Cubsfan."Chmurny "worshiped" his wife, Kupper says. As an executive, Kupper says, heoften has worked with troubled employees and he asserts Chmurny just does notfit that profile. Chmurny rarely talked to Kupper about his legal case, sayingthat his lawyer would not let him, but adding, "If I could explain it to you,you wouldn't believe what is going on."Throughout his life, Chmurny consistently impressed people with his intellectand demeanor. After a fellowship at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology,he had worked in high-level jobs for Pfizer Inc. and W.R. Grace & Co., where herepeatedly got good reviews and advanced his career. By the time of his lastarrest, he had become vice president of a company in Beltsville calledBiospherics Inc. "I was very taken with him," says Gilbert Levin, the firm'schief executive. "He spoke very well, presented very well, very knowledgeable."Because he had no prior criminal record, Chmurny had been placed on probationafter his initial 1997 arrest for breaking into Marta Bradley's Prince George'sCounty home. The court ordered him to get psychological help and stay away fromthe Bradleys. On at least three occasions, though, Chmurny was accused ofviolating his probation by stalking Bradley. But he never committed a seriousenough offense to be jailed. Instead, his case was continued and continuedagain, his probation was extended, and, eventually, further counseling wasordered."At that point, we did not know how disturbed he was," says Tara Harrison, aformer Prince George's prosecutor. "We thought, based on his background andstature, and never being in trouble before," that probation and the threat ofjail would be enough to change his behavior. "Of course, hindsight is 20-20, andif we'd known everything about him then, we never would have done that."The succession of defense lawyers, probation officials and mental healthpractitioners who worked with Chmurny at various points say that they remainbound by privacy regulations and professional ethics not to divulge details oftheir interactions with him. Nonetheless, interviews with dozens of people whohad contact with him over the years -- plus the voluminous court documents and awritten record that the Bradleys kept of his activities -- suggest the outlinesof a puzzling personality disorder, not easily classified. It apparently emergedonly under stresses late in the life of a man who had had relatively limitedexperience with women in his workplace and overall.Like a piece of cut crystal turning in the light, Chmurny's personality showedoff its different facets depending on how the circumstances of life struck him.There was intensity and energy and warmth and even joviality. But he also hadstreaks of obsessive behavior, and paranoia, and narcissism, a fixation on theself that creates an excessive need for support and approval -- and that sparksrage and depression if those needs aren't met, according to mental healthexperts. Chmurny's obsession with his needs was so pronounced that one personwho knew him said Chmurny could be extremely callous about hurting others: "Adog is barking. You kick the dog so it stops barking. But you do not perceive,or care, that the dog stopped barking because you hurt the dog."Chmurny could be extremely persuasive, convincing people of his version ofevents by building a detailed, almost scientific explanation for his behavior,even in the face of strong contradictions. In fact, when the evidence did notmatch his reality, Chmurny on several occasions artfully fabricated letters,e-mails and other documents to change that reality. The result was that AlanChmurny seemed quite credible, especially because he apparently had come tobelieve the altered truth himself.Whatever the cause of Chmurny's personality disorder, the result was clear, atleast to some in the jury box, such as computer scientist Scott Stewart. "Everyhuman being has a dark side to them, and we almost always keep it locked up in abox," Stewart says. "But I think he let his out. And it was out roaming thestreets late at night."It was his crying over the deviled eggs. That was when Marta Bradley realizedthat the man she had known for more than a year as a troubled but friendly oldercolleague was really much more disturbed than she had ever imagined. She was 28,almost the same age as his daughter, when she met Chmurny at Oceanix BiosciencesCorp. in Anne Arundel County, where she worked as an administrative assistant.An accomplished classical musician, she played bass for the Baltimore Operaorchestra, the Fairfax and Alexandria symphonies, and other part-time gigs,while also needing a steady day job with benefits.She was an attractive woman, with dark hair, sharp features and sparkling greeneyes. Upbeat, energetic, shapely, she came across like a cheerleader, althoughshe'd never been one growing up in the Virginia suburbs. She'd met her husbandwhen they were both music students at Indiana University. Scot was a jazztrumpeter, and they'd gone on the road together, playing in the orchestra fortraveling musicals like "Gypsy." They'd been married nearly five years, pursuingtheir musical careers, living in a small place in Laurel with their two dogs,and planning on a bigger place and a family.Oceanix had about 35 employees and they were generally a close-knit group. Inthe small front office, Marta Bradley and Jean Lancaster, a lab manager, oftentalked and gossiped with Chmurny, who was balding and graying in his earlyfifties. He dyed his hair and combed it over his bald spot to look moreyouthful. He was a lanky 6 feet and 185 pounds, an avid outdoorsman who kept indecent shape walking and hiking, in addition to his primary hobby, fly-fishing.Alan Chmurny had been the quiet, nerdy kid with the eyeglasses in his schoolyearbook pictures, growing up in suburban Chicago. He was the second of two sonsborn to William Chmurny, a factory worker whose family hailed from Bohemia, andhis wife, Anne, a vivacious woman who sold real estate after her husband diedwhen the children were young. Alan made the National Honor Society and was aleader of the debate team. In his early life and then in his world of laboratoryresearch, according to colleagues, Chmurny had had limited contact with women,particularly in workplace settings where the line between friendliness andflirtation can be blurred. He had few close friends, none of them women. "He'dnever been exposed to a woman like that, and I think she spun his head aroundlike it had never been spun before," says a man who knew Chmurny and asked notto be identified. "She was not doing anything improper, but he justmisinterpreted it."Chmurny enjoyed her attention. "At first, he was the kind of person you couldjoke around with. He was outgoing, kind of jolly," Bradley recalls. Over time,though, he began sharing his personal problems, which seemed ever mounting, andhe played heavily on Bradley's sympathies. First, it was fear of cancer. He wasacting quiet and withdrawn, but kept saying "never mind" when she inquired. Thenhe told her his doctors told him it appeared he had stomach cancer.A few weeks later, when he was brooding again in his office, Bradley asked whatwas wrong and he said he'd been going through credit card receipts anddetermined that his wife, Gwen, was cheating on him. Later, he said he wasstaying with Gwen only for complicated personal reasons but that they were"living in opposite ends of the house."Weeks later, he said his doctors had been wrong about the cancer -- and Chmurnyseemed ecstatic. He told Bradley he'd met a wonderful woman named Debbie, and hewas in love. He said he'd met her at a UCLA alumni function and that she waspassionate, beautiful, successful and 29 years old. For several weeks, he talkedintermittently about how amazing Debbie was, how he felt like a young man again.Shortly afterward, a snapshot of a smiling Marta Bradley from the 1995 officeChristmas party went missing from the company bulletin board. For some reason,she decided to ask Chmurny if he knew what happened to it. He said, "Yeah, youknow, I went to go get your picture, but it wasn't there . . . Yeah, I was goingto go get it and show Debbie what you look like, but it wasn't there."Bradley recalls feeling uncomfortable, wondering why Chmurny wanted to show herpicture to Debbie. Something seemed strange to her, and Bradley felt a fleetingsense that there was no Debbie, that Chmurny was making her up. Nonetheless, sheoccasionally would ask about Debbie, and even suggested several times thatChmurny take her on a double date with Bradley and her husband. But he alwaysput her off. Then, in June 1996, Chmurny called Bradley at the office. "He toldme he wasn't coming to work, but he said, 'Please, don't tell them why, becauseI don't want people to know.' And he was in tears. He was bawling on thetelephone. He said, 'Debbie was killed last night in an automobile accident inSan Francisco.' He was really crying, and at that point, I thought she wasreal."Several weeks later, an unexplained $ 500 deposit appeared in Bradley's checkingaccount. Oceanix automatically deposited her paychecks, so she asked theaccounting manager and mentioned to people around her office that somebody musthave made a mistake. Several days later, she got an unsigned typewritten note inthe mail that said, "It's not a mistake, just think of it as your own little NEAgrant," referring to the National Endowment for the Arts. Previously, Chmurnyhad told her he liked to help people and had the money to do it. But when sheasked if he had given her the $ 500, he said he had no idea what she was talkingabout.Chmurny intermittently seemed depressed, talked about his marriage being over,about missing Debbie, about how everything bad always seemed to happen to him.Bradley repeatedly urged him to seek counseling.Then his cancer returned with a vengeance. "This time, he pulled me into hisoffice, toward the end of the day, and he said, 'Before you go, I have to talkto you.' He said he was going on vacation and he had something for me. He said,'I am going away and I may never see you again. And with everything I've beenthrough, you've been like a daughter to me. And I want you to have something inreturn for that.' "He told her his cancer had grown larger and wrapped around his internal organs,and he had to go to the Mayo Clinic for a special test in which they freeze aportion of his organs, take a sample and test the cancer. "Please don't tellanyone," he said. "I am not even telling my wife or my mother. My daughterdoesn't know. I don't want to freak them out."Then he gave her his gift. Bradley had a pair of rhinestone hoop earrings, andChmurny said he remembered someone once asking her if they were real diamonds.She'd laughed and said, "If they were real, would I be working here?" NowChmurny said, "I've decided because you've been like a daughter, I want you tohave these," and handed her a dazzling pair of diamond earrings.Immediately, she said, "I can't accept them, it's way too much."But he insisted. "I absolutely want you to have them. I may never see you again.You must take them. Wear them in the [orchestra] pit. Wear them onstage at yourconcerts.""I really believed him" that he was dying, Bradley recalls. "He was shaking. Hehad tears in his eyes. I was upset. I was in tears."Bradley could not keep the secret and told their colleague Jean Lancaster, whobecame worried, called the Mayo Clinic and found that Chmurny was not there.Days later, when Chmurny called Bradley, she told him about Lancaster's effortto find him. "I remember him getting really weird on the phone, saying, 'Oh, sheshouldn't have done that, she shouldn't have done that.' " The next week, hecalled with the good news that everything was fine, the doctors had been wrongagain, and he was going on vacation.Her growing doubts about his emotional stability were finally confirmed by thedeviled eggs. A coworker named Kim was renowned for the eggs she brought toholiday parties, but Chmurny publicly insisted his were better and he organizeda taste test. Kim's were plain old deviled eggs, but Chmurny's were quiteelaborate, with the yolk mixture shaped by using a pastry bag, and the eggstopped with caviar. His eggs won.The defeated Kim came into Marta Bradley's office, joking that she would neveragain bring her deviled eggs to an office party. Marta joked back, "Oh, Kim,please make your eggs again. I thought his were the grossest things I ever putin my mouth! Who puts caviar on deviled eggs?"Chmurny didn't talk to Marta for several days, and then Jean Lancaster came toBradley and said, "Marta, please, talk to him. I've never seen him like this. Hewas practically in tears telling me you didn't like his deviled eggs.""I said, 'You've got to be kidding me,' and Jean says, 'Please, go talk to him.'I said, 'No, it's ridiculous.' And she says, 'Please, please' . . . So finally,I said okay. I went to his office and he literally had tears running down hisface. He was crying, and I said, 'Alan, I don't know what your problem is' . . .and he said, 'It just upset me so much that you would talk behind my back likethat, and your door was wide open, and that you would say such mean and hurtfulthings.' And I said, 'I don't know what the mean and hurtful things were. I justliked her deviled eggs better.' "He took out his handkerchief and wept, Bradley recalls, and that is when shesaid to herself, There is something majorly wrong.At Oceanix, Jean Lancaster told Bradley and Chmurny one day that she was worriedabout her upcoming annual evaluation. Several days later, Chmurny wrote and leftin their mailboxes evaluations of each woman -- although he was not theirsupervisor. Lancaster's mock evaluation was straightforward praise of her work;Bradley's was not.Listing her yearly accomplishments, Chmurny wrote: "Became a good friend tosomeone who needed it . . . Shared the pain . . . Shared the joy . . . Caughther friend's life with a caring heart when everything he had found was takenaway in an instant. To this day she has not let it fall and break." Understrengths, he wrote, "Marta is intelligent, smart, talented beyond measure,strong, caring, funny, pretty (almost beyond measure), and forever a girl in herheart. Most exceptional is that she does not seem to be willing to give up onpeople when she holds them as a friend, no matter how hard they try to screwup."Under her annual goals, he wrote, "Provide promised picture of self with dogs toreviewer, or else he'll hold his breath until he turns blue, faints, falls, andhits his head and becomes a cabbage." The evaluation concluded, "When sheleaves, part of us and me will never be the same."Bradley says she was "freaked" to read this. After the deviled egg incident,"I'd decided this was not healthy, but I'd been hoping it would just go away,"she recalls. But a few days later, Chmurny threw a fit when Bradley played arecital at Catholic University on a weekend he was out of town. "He was angry.He said, 'I can't believe you would schedule it then' " -- as if his presencewas crucial."At this stage, I knew something wasn't right," she says. "I felt he reallyneeded me to make him feel good about himself. And I knew that whatever it was,whether he was interested in me romantically or not, that it was not healthy."She shared her concerns with her husband and with Lancaster, who both said sheshouldn't be overly worried: Alan is just odd and immature. Just keep yourdistance, and it'll blow over. But Bradley had a growing fear that Chmurny felthe couldn't live without her, she says. "It was just snowballing."One day in March 1997, Chmurny made a big deal about the front right tire onBradley's car being low on air. She ran out to check her 1992 Taurus wagon andtold him no, the tires were fairly new and sometimes just looked that way. ButChmurny kept insisting, so she later had her husband check it out. No problem.That Sunday, Bradley performed at a classical concert in Baltimore and emergedto find a flat tire. Her front right. A policeman helped her put on the spare,and Scot Bradley checked out the flat. Nothing was wrong with it, so it wentback on the car.Two Sundays later, at another venue in Baltimore, Marta Bradley emerged to findthe same tire flat again. Again, the tire was filled, and it was fine.The next night, the Bradleys remember, their dogs kept barking at somethingoutside their Laurel home. In the morning, they had a flat tire -- front right.When Scot returned for the third time to his tire dealer, they told him,"Somebody is letting the air out of your tires."The next day at work, she talked about her persistent flat tire, Bradley says,"and Alan came running out of his office and says, 'I bet it was your frontright tire. It was your front right, wasn't it? I told you it was going flat.'And at that point, at that point, I knew. I knew. There was no way to prove it,but I knew it was him."Then Chmurny came to her and said, "I think someone is doing this to you." Heinsisted that she borrow and carry his air compressor. "I said, 'I don't wantyour air compressor.' Because at this point, I knew it was him." But he insistedon it. "No, no. Take my air compressor. I'd just feel better for you if you hadit."So she took the air compressor, and her tire problem stopped.Bradley traveled often to play at concerts around the region, and Chmurny oneday asked her friend Carol Kyte whether she knew if Marta was planning to go toPhiladelphia for a weekend recital. He told her he wanted to know because "I'mworried about her. I am really worried somebody is after Marta."During his emotional travails, Chmurny's work friends convinced him that heshould seek the companionship of a dog. He got a mutt from the Frederick dogpound and chose the name Tangle. He often asked Bradley about her dogs,suggesting they should play together with his. Then, early in April 1997, MartaBradley got an emotional handwritten two-page letter from Chmurny's dog. It wasscrawled in childlike writing and signed "Love, Tangle.""Dear Marta, I have to make this short because holding this pen makes my pawshurt. My Dad has screwed up again, hasn't he? . . . Whatever he has done, andit's probably something stupid as usual, it's okay to be really mad at him . . .I hope you know that he loves you too, even more than he loves me I think . . ."Bradley shared the letter with her work friends, who agreed Chmurny's behaviorwas blossoming into something very strange. Bradley left the letter in her desk.The next day, it was gone.That weekend, she returned home after a trip to Philadelphia and found herbedroom closet folding door off its runner. She thought at first her dogs mighthave done it. But then she realized she was missing much of her lingerie,regular and fancy, clean and dirty, along with a single piece of jewelry -- thediamond earrings from Alan Chmurny."Everything was so bizarre. We thought: the tires, the break-in, it was all sobizarre," she recalls. "It's like I knew he was doing it, but I didn't know forsure."Back at the office on Monday after a fitful night, Bradley did not mention thebreak-in. Chmurny came by and remarked how tired she looked and how "Philly musthave really worn you out." Bradley told him about the missing Tangle letter,asking if he took it from her desk. He emphatically denied it. The next morning,the letter was back in her desk.The Bradleys' two dogs, Crystal and Casey, were going crazy, jumping and barkingwhen Marta returned home from a musical performance on the night of April 11,1997. Crystal, a normally quiet greyhound, would not stop yelping and several ofher claws were broken from scratching at something.It was another break-in. A trembling Marta Bradley took inventory of hervaluables. Nothing was missing -- except her favorite tourmaline pendant, astriking piece that had been admired and commented upon several times by AlanChmurny.The Laurel city police took the Bradleys' report but said there was no evidenceto charge Chmurny. A female police officer suggested that Marta was not tellingthe full story of her relationship with Chmurny, which made her so angry thatScot Bradley had to handle the rest of the police interview.The next day, Marta told the whole story to the president of Oceanix, DavidManyak, who took copies of the Tangle letter and the mock evaluation. As soon asshe left Manyak's office, an agitated Chmurny demanded to know what she had beendoing in there. Nothing, she said.Days later, he followed her home at night. She saw him parked in an alley nearher house and called the police. Chmurny drove away before they arrived. Thenext day at Oceanix, he told her, "That was really weird last night!" Heexplained that he happened to be in her neighborhood because he was looking tobuy a house in Laurel "and I saw you, and I waved to you. Why didn't you evenwave to me?"Bradley was increasingly frightened by these strange interactions, tried toavoid him altogether, and told him he had to stay away from her. "I don'tunderstand. I don't understand," he protested. She sensed he was almost daringher to accuse him of the burglaries. He kept prodding her for specifics and shementioned only the theft of the diamond earrings.Later that day, he came to her office with the appraisal form of the earrings,showing their value at more than $ 3,000, and told her she could use it tocollect on the insurance.By this time, the Bradleys had replaced all the locks on their rented home withdeadbolts. Several days later, they both returned from music gigs on a Saturdaynight and found all the locks had been super-glued. The message seemed strangelyclear: If I can't get in, neither can you.The next Monday morning, Chmurny threw an envelope on Marta's desk and handedher cans of mace and pepper spray. He told her that his daughter had left thesprays at their home and he wanted her to use them for protection. In theenvelope was $ 1,000; "Do something to protect your home," he said.Bradley refused to accept any of it. Chmurny left in a huff, then came back andthrew down a Fairfax Symphony Orchestra CD and a tape of Bradley's own playingthat she had given him as gifts long before. She dismissed his tantrums asstrange and immature, but when she described the most recent developments to apsychologist friend, he told her Chmurny's behavior sounded ominous. Bysuggesting that Marta Bradley should protect herself, her friend said, Chmurnycould be saying he planned to hurt her.Scot Bradley had been keeping his temper in check, but finally decided he had tocall Chmurny. He reached him at Oceanix and, without identifying himself, said,"Stay away from my house. Stay away from my wife." He says he made no otherthreat. As he recalls, Chmurny responded, "What are you talking about? I don'tknow what you're talking about. Who is this?"The next morning, on April 24, 1997, when Marta Bradley encountered him in ahallway, Chmurny looked flushed and shaky. "Here. This appeared in my mailboxthis morning," he said, thrusting at her a stuffed manila envelope that was tornopen. "I guess these things belong to you."Inside were three of her brassieres and a sheet of cardboard with pieces of tapethat held her stolen diamond earrings and the pendant. On the cardboard werecut-out newspaper headline letters that spelled: "I'M NOT THROUGH WITH YOU."She immediately called the police. Chmurny was arrested the following week andlater charged with 13 counts, including first-degree burglary, theft andharassment. He was placed on leave and several weeks later fired by Oceanix. Inhis final hours there, Chmurny made several trips to the paper shredder. It wasnot until the following year that Bradley learned that her boss, Manyak, and hiswife, worried about Chmurny's intentions, had painstakingly pieced together theshredded papers, which Manyak shared with Bradley and the police.One page had a disjointed list of things he wanted to tell Marta, including:"You were the first female friend I ever really had and were becoming one of thebest friends I had. Was it wrong to love you for that and to tell you so?" And,finally, "We won't ever be friends again . . . You have been too willing tobelieve that everything bad that has gone on has been my responsibility. Somedayyou'll know you were wrong and that is too bad for you and me."The arrest, they thought, could bring the end of the nightmare. By this point,Marta and Scot Bradley's life had been so disrupted that they'd postponed talkabout having a child. They'd set up a motion detector and a video camera torecord movements outside their home, and they were in fear of what Chmurny mighttry next. They eventually moved to a new home, had their mail routed to a postalbox, and put a screening device on their telephone."We all like to think that we have control in our lives, and this was thebiggest awakening you could ever get -- that you don't," Marta Bradley recalls."Always having a video camera going. Always having an escort to every gig, toand from. Always carrying pepper spray. Always carrying a cell phone. Always, ifI am walking by myself, carrying the cell phone with 911 already dialed andready, and a whistle around my neck. Those were the things I could control."The Bradleys' life actually became peaceful -- for several weeks. Then theystarted getting hang-up phone calls at various hours. Then Bradley found flowersin a plastic cup on the hood of her car after a concert in Fairfax. Several dayslater, flowers were left overnight on her desk at work. Chmurny had been bannedfrom the premises of Oceanix, but nobody realized at the time that someone madeat least six unauthorized entries to the firm after midnight by using JeanLancaster's computer access code.Days later, the side of Bradley's car was badly scratched up by a car key. And,carved into the driver's side window, were the words "I LOVE YOU." Whoeveretched the window printed the words backwards so that Bradley could read themfrom the driver's seat.Then her front windshield was smashed with a rock.Then she got a package delivered at work with an unusual pen that she had onceremarked she liked. An identical package arrived, addressed to Chmurny.Then more flowers on her car. And more.The Bradleys reported all this to the authorities, but they were told there wasno way to prove who did it.On February 7, 1998, Bradley was performing with a group called Concert Artistsof Baltimore when, during a pause, she could hear someone walking backstage. Shealso heard the jangling of keys and first thought it might be a janitor. Thenher heart sank as she remembered she'd left the keys to her home and car in hercoat. When the performance ended, she ran backstage and her keys were gone.Several days later, the Bradleys got a call from a woman who worked at theconcert hall, telling them someone had returned the keys. Scot Bradley brought asnapshot of Chmurny with him when he went to pick them up, and the woman said itlooked like the man who had dropped off the keys.Under a plea agreement worked out by Chmurny's lawyer and Prince George'sprosecutors, Chmurny admitted no guilt on the charge of harassing Bradley, butacknowledged that the state had enough evidence to convict him. The criminalcharges against him would be dismissed if he complied with the order to leaveMarta Bradley alone.With the court order in place, Scott and Marta Bradley felt a little morecomfortable and once again entertained thoughts of having a child. In November1998, Marta Bradley was playing a series of performances at Baltimore's LyricOpera House and noticed on three separate evenings that the rear window of herTaurus wagon had been unlatched.On the night of November 18, Scot Bradley and a friend decided to stake outMarta's car while she played. If Chmurny showed up, he would be violating theterms of his probation and subject to a 90-day jail term. After two hours ofwatching from another car, they spotted him. As his friend dialed 911 to get thepolice, Scot Bradley approached Chmurny at the side of Marta's car."He just had this look in his eye and he wasn't really -- I don't know, it wasnot the same person I knew. The look on his face . . . He was possessed . . . helooked like he was someplace else," Bradley recalls.Bradley started yelling at him: "You've been told to stay away from my wife!What are you doing here? . . . She doesn't want to have anything to do withyou!"That is when Chmurny slugged him. "I didn't see it coming at all. Just jacked myjaw." Scot Bradley got off some good shots too, leaving Chmurny's face bruised.The two men wrestled, and in the process, Bradley saw that Chmurny had somethingdangling from his belt. "That really scared me. First I thought it was a knifeand then I saw it was handcuffs."Bradley tried to wrestle him to the ground and mace him, but Chmurny ran offbefore the Baltimore police came. Since police had not witnessed the incident,they would not charge Chmurny, but Bradley filed additional charges against himthe next day.At Chmurny's trial in District Court in Baltimore, the Bradleys were astonishedwhen he claimed that he had been invited by Marta to meet her at the opera.Chmurny produced in court a typed letter that began "Dearest Alan" and went onto say that the Bradleys had just learned another musician had burglarized theirhome, vandalized the car and stalked her. "I hate myself for ever thinking itwas you, someone I loved and who I was sure loved me," the letter said.To show her regret and "to show you how much we trust you," the letter said,Marta was giving her house and car keys to Alan and inviting him to enter herhome in her absence. Or, the letter said, he could just meet her at her caroutside the opera. "I have missed you so much. My life has not been the samewithout you and I still love you."The lone handwritten word, "Marta," was a fairly accurate facsimile of hersignature, which the Bradleys believed he had practiced tracing.Chmurny also advertised in the Baltimore Sun for anyone who might have observedthe November 18 altercation and he was able to obtain a witness who saw at leastpart of the fight and testified that Chmurny was just defending himself. OnMarch 22, 1999, Chmurny was found not guilty of assault and harassment.On the morning of April 5, Marta Bradley was pulling onto Route 100 on her wayto Oceanix and flinched, as always, when she spotted a beige Accord. It wasChmurny. His car came up alongside hers just as she entered the highway. Shegrabbed her cell phone to call 911, but it wasn't working. She slowed her car,but he pulled right in front of her and slowed, too, she says. "Every time Islowed, he slowed. He just stared at me in the rearview mirror. By the time Igot [to Oceanix] I was shaking. Just shaking."A coworker suggested that if Chmurny had her car keys, he could have planted atracking device in her Taurus, so they went outside to search her car. There wasno tracking device, but tucked into a crevice in the rear seat they foundseveral colored electrical wires along with a handwritten note on FairfaxSymphony stationery. The note said, "Mart, I made the pipe bomb/packages likeyou asked. They are all deadly once you connect the batteries . . . The one withthe motion-detector is very trickey!! You have to turn on the timer before youplug it in, or else it will go off immediately. I showed this all to Scot too .. . Please be careful with this [expletive]. I love you."Anne Arundel County police evacuated Oceanix and searched the car. They took thenote, but later told the Bradleys they did not have enough evidence to chargeChmurny.By now, Chmurny had stalked Marta Bradley in five different jurisdictions, soeach time the local cops and judges were not aware of the full history. Midwaythrough her first pregnancy, Marta Bradley, was fearful and depressed because ofChmurny's ability to evade the law, and she prayed he'd be stopped.On July 16, 1999, Alan Chmurny went to the Frederick County Commissioners officeand swore out a handwritten three-page criminal complaint accusing the Bradleysof telephone harassment and repeated threats of violence. To support hischarges, Chmurny tried to introduce as evidence the "Dearest Alan" letter, whichapparently had helped acquit him in Baltimore. Now, he tried to use it as proofthat the Bradleys had lured him to Baltimore to assault him. Chmurny alsoproduced his telephone "Caller ID" records, which showed more than a dozen callsostensibly from the Bradleys' phone to his home in Frederick between 1 a.m. and4 a.m. over a period of weeks. He said both Marta and Scot had been harassinghim and threatened that "they would blow me away along with my wife, my dog andmy property, and that we should think about that every time we turned theignition key in any of our cars."The case was assigned to Kirsten Daggett, an assistant state's attorney forFrederick, who recalls preferring to conduct her interviews of Chmurny by phonerather than in person. "I was a little intimidated to meet with him," she says,"because something was just not right." Chmurny was "very adamant about hisposition that she was harassing him," Daggett says. "He seemed like he reallybelieved it, just the way he was talking."After she contacted the Bradleys and their lawyer, Daggett received a copy oftheir voluminous file outlining the entire strange history. "It was like amurder-mystery novel. I took it home. It was pages and pages . . . and I couldn't putit down," Daggett says. She became convinced Chmurny had fabricated theevidence, including the Caller ID. The alleged late-night telephone threatswould have been toll calls from Laurel to Frederick on the Bradleys' phone bill,but the Bradleys produced telephone records showing that the calls neverappeared on their bill. An investigation by the phone company suggested that thecalls were actually made by someone using an extension phone from the phone boxon the outside of their house. Short hang-up calls would have registered onChmurny's Caller ID, but not on the Bradleys' phone bill."It was creepy," Daggett says, "and kind of ingenious." She decided to drop thecharges.The Bradleys by now had moved to a new home in Howard County and hoped it wouldbe harder for Chmurny to find them. They celebrated the birth of a daughter inSeptember 1999 and were able to enjoy their longest period of respite from theirordeal. "We were sure he was lurking," Marta Bradley says, "but for about fivemonths, no sign of him."On April 16, 2000, Marta Bradley went out to her car to retrieve documents sheneeded for her last-minute income-tax filing. On the front seats of her car, shesaw a scattering of tiny silver balls that she initially thought were sprinklesfrom cake decorations. But when she touched them, they seemed to disintegrate.Then she saw traces of the substance near the car's air vents and on the floor.She called Oceanix and then the police.Mercury in liquid form is toxic, but not necessarily lethal. In a vapor state,however, it is odorless, colorless and deadly, entering the lungs, lodging inthe bloodstream and gradually accumulating in internal organs. Vaporized in acar's heating system, it would attack the liver and kidneys and eventually causedelirium, memory loss, hallucinations and ultimately death. The level found inBradley's car was initially measured by the Maryland Department of theEnvironment at 400 times the dose considered safe for humans.When he got the report of attempted mercury poisoning, Howard County Det. GlennCase was skeptical. "I thought, 'This is kind of weird. Who would do somethinglike this?' I questioned the authenticity of it," Case says. "But in a fewminutes of meeting with her, I knew."Case, a 12-year police veteran, decided that this was a most unusual and craftyassailant and that it would be pointless to question Chmurny. Instead, hedecided to try to set a trap. The Bradleys' insurance company had declared thepoisoned car a total loss, but Case arranged to leave it near their house in aspot where it could be easily observed -- by a hidden camera with night vision.Police and the Bradleys each set up unmanned cameras in upstairs bedrooms, bothtrained on the Taurus in hopes Chmurny would return. The Bradleys also set uptheir motion detector, designed to trigger a loud radio if anyone came walkingaround the house late at night.Chmurny, meanwhile, mostly unemployed for more than two years, had recently beenhired as a vice president and new business manager of Biospherics in Beltsville.He'd gotten the job based on impressive credentials that omitted all referencesto Oceanix. And now, he was a rising star. On May 22, 2000, Chmurny addressedthe firm's stockholders, speaking enthusiastically about a safe-for-humanspesticide and a low-calorie sweetener, proj-ects that he headed. According toCEO Gilbert Levin, Chmurny gave such a terrific presentation at the firm'sannual meeting that "everyone congratulated him."That was Chmurny's day job, but his nights were free. Periodically, Scot Bradleywould fast-forward through the eight-hour videotapes, hoping for a glimpse ofChmurny's nighttime prowling. The Bradleys also alerted their neighbors toplease watch out for strangers at night.One night in late May, her baby daughter woke her in the middle of the night andMarta took her downstairs to nurse, "and it had gotten to where I could just notstand it anymore. I was rocking her, and I had one of those conversations withGod, where I said, 'What am I doing wrong? What am I doing wrong?' . . . It wasa self-pity kind of thing, and I prayed, 'Please let this end.' What was soweird, I remember I prayed specifically, 'Please let somebody see him. Pleaselet there be a witness, someone other than Scot or I.' "The next night, May 31, 2000, somebody saw him.A 21-year-old neighbor driving home just before 2 a.m. spotted someone tamperingwith Marta's car, called the police and walked over to meet the police at theBradleys'. Marta and Scot were awakened when the motion detector triggered theblaring radio, and they were ecstatic.Sure enough, at 1:50 a.m. the night-vision videotape had captured the grainy illuminated image of a tall, slenderman wearing a light jacket and baseball cap lurking near the car. When Scothurriedly fast-forwarded through the previous nights' tapes, the same man alsoappeared in the early morning hours, at 2:23 a.m. on May 30, 1:48 a.m. on May29, and 2:49 a.m. on May 26. The images were dark and blurry, but they werepositive it was Chmurny.Police created a "photo lineup" of six white males in their late fifties, andCase showed them to the Bradleys' neighbor, who picked No. 4 as the man she saw.It was Chmurny. Two days later, police arrested him.This time, a judge ordered Chmurny to wear an electronic ankle bracelet thatprevented him from leaving his house without permission of his probationofficer. But Marta Bradley was so frightened that she packed her bags and leftwith the baby to visit her parents in Florida, staying there for more than amonth. "I thought, if he did get out, if he decided to do that, it would be thelast time he would get out," she says, "because I felt that would be the time hecame to kill me."They found his writings in his cluttered basement, inside a black satchel thatprosecutors later called his "stalking bag." One page held a 700-word sexuallyexplicit ode to Marta that began: "Here's a riddle for you. What's thedifference between Marta Bradley and a female bass player that is going to beraped, castrated, have her face mutilated, and then have all her fingers on bothhands cut off? Answer: There is no difference." The "riddle letter" went on tographic descriptions of his break-ins to her bedroom, his fantasies about herbody parts and his violent sexual threats.That was only one piece in the pile of evidence police found in executing searchwarrants of Chmurny's home and car on the day of his arrest, June 2, 2000.Chmurny also had photographs of Marta Bradley, typewritten schedules of her workhours and her musical appearances, printouts of her e-mails and Internet searchmaps to her home -- although Chmurny had told Det. Case he didn't even knowwhere she lived. Police also found the eight duplicate keys that fit theBradleys' former home and their two cars, along with lock-picking tools. Theyretrieved a plastic bag that held the Bradleys' old ATM receipts and locks ofhair that appeared to match that of Marta Bradley, who cut her own hair at homeand threw it in the trash. They also found a jacket and baseball cap thatappeared to match those worn by the man in the night-vision videotapes. Andthere were two sheets of paper with large computer-printed warnings: "YOU DON'THAVE LONG" and "YOU ARE DEAD."In Chmurny's car, they found what Case called "the smoking gun," a plasticbottle labeled "Mercury Waste" that still held some mercury.While the search warrants were being executed, Case seized the chance to talk toChmurny's wife, Gwendolyn. She immediately insisted that her husband was beingframed. "The Bradleys are telling lies," said Gwendolyn Chmurny, a white-hairedwoman of 64. Case asked her how she could explain the fact that credit cardrecords obtained by the police showed that many of the late-night stalkingshappened to occur during the precise periods when Gwendolyn, a scientist at theNational Cancer Institute, was away on out-of-state trips."The Bradleys must know my travel schedule," she told Case. She maintained thatthe Bradleys had staged the stalking incidents, planted the mercury in their owncar and in Chmurny's, and sent the incriminating material to the Chmurnys' home.At her husband's trial last September, Gwendolyn Chmurny attempted to make hercase to the jurors, telling them, for example, that her husband kept MartaBradley's concert schedule so that he'd know exactly where she was, so he couldbe sure not to violate the court order against contacting her. Such explanationsshowed that Alan Chmurny "snookered his wife" into believing his lies andfantasies, prosecutor Jim Dietrich told the jury in his closing argument."Ladies and gentlemen, don't let him snooker you."The jury stayed out for more than four hours, talking, examining evidence, andrepeatedly viewing the night-vision videotapes. Chmurny's lawyers, Dino Floresand Steven Kupferberg, told him earlier in the day that they were optimisticthat they had raised enough reasonable doubt. Had the prosecution proven thatChmurny actually wrote the riddle letter? Did the mercury found in the two carsdefinitively match? How could they be positive that it was, in fact, Chmurny inthe dark, grainy videos?The police videotape was of such poor quality that the Bradleys' own tapes hadto be introduced as evidence. The images are disturbing but almost comical. Thetall thin man in the light jacket and baseball cap stands in darkness, peeringat the car. He walks back and forth on the far sidewalk, afraid to venturetoward the car. Then he does. He walks oddly, stiffly, with his arms straight athis sides and not moving. He approaches the car, touches the door handle, andthe dome light goes on. He retreats. He walks back and forth past the car. Onenight, he gets in the car and sits there for several minutes. Another night,garbage night, he bypasses the Taurus and walks off with two of the Bradleys'white plastic garbage bags. And finally, another night, a flood of headlightsilluminates him at 1:50 a.m. on May 31, and he scurries quickly out of thepicture.For his defense, Chmurny apparently planned to have one ace up his sleeve. Hislawyers subpoenaed Marta Bradley's personnel records from Oceanix, whichincluded a six-page single-spaced narrative that Bradley wrote called "Historyof Relationship with Alan B. Chmurny." But after he got the subpoena last June,Manyak, the Oceanix president, reviewed her file and as he reread her narrative,he was stunned to realize the original had been replaced with a virtuallyidentical but cleverly altered document. It had mostly the same sentences andparagraphs, had been typed in the same font, and laid out to look identical --but inserted in it were numerous fantasy passages apparently written by Chmurny.The original, for example, mentions Bradley's suspicions that Chmurny stole herphoto from the company bulletin board. But the altered letter adds: "This was OKthough. I liked the idea of his having my picture because I found myself havingstrong feelings for him. It was strange because we were both married and becauseof the difference in our ages. But I tried to avoid doing anything to show himor anyone else that I cared for him." The altered version also adds this scene:"I remember working late one night with Alan on a grant application and askinghim to scratch my back under my bra. There was something about the feelings Ihad then with his hands on my back that made me wish things could be differentbetween us."Manyak had copies of the original, which he returned to Bradley's file, alongwith a new two-page memo he wrote, suggesting that Chmurny had made unauthorizedentry to Oceanix and substituted the phony document. Chmurny's defense teamnever tried to use it.Finally, just after 5 p.m. on September 12, the jury filed back into thecourtroom and, as Chmurny stood in his dark gray suit and Halston tie to facethem, the verdict was delivered: guilty on five of six counts. Chmurny'simpassive expression did not change. The jurors were then polled individually toask if they agreed. Chmurny had opened his briefcase and taken something out ofit. As the jury began to file out, Chmurny swiveled in his chair and spoke tohis wife and daughter in the front row. "Goodbye . . . I love you," he said, andmurmured something about how it would be okay.Flores, his defense lawyer, thought it odd that he was saying goodbye because hewas not necessarily going to be jailed immediately.Then Chmurny took a paper cup with water and swallowed something."What was that?" Flores asked."A tranquilizer," Chmurny said.Flores then told him that the judge would set a date for sentencing and theywould try to have him remain free on bond until then."Thank you," Chmurny said, shaking his hand. Then he added, "I'm dead. It wascyanide."Flores said he would get help."Don't bother," Chmurny said.The lawyer immediately asked Judge Raymond J. Kane Jr. if he could approach thebench, and whispered, "My client has indicated to me he just took a cyanide pill. . ."Kane ordered the sheriffs to get Chmurny out of the courtroom and to call 911.Court reporter Shirley Reynolds made the call, and, with an ambulance on theway, she was connected to the state poison center. She thought Chmurny lookedokay, but then he started to vomit. They gave him a garbage pail. The poisoncenter asked her to try to confirm that it was cyanide, so she asked Chmurny."I didn't take anything," he replied. His face, she recalls, was "totally blank,just totally blank and he was totally calm."So Reynolds repeated her question urgently. "Mr. Chmurny, I saw you takesomething," she recalls saying. "But he just stared at me."Then Chmurny's face turned red, his eyes rolled up into his head and he wentinto convulsions. Cyanide, one of the most rapidly acting of all poisons, hadbegun to asphyxiate him. In the stomach, it turns into hydrogen cyanide gas, thesame substance used in gas chambers. It blocks the enzymes that allow the bodyto use oxygen, essentially creating a chemical suffocation. Only a small pinchof cyanide crystals is enough to kill, often within a few minutes -- but notalways. Fire department emergency medics hooked him up to an IV and rushed himout to the ambulance. On the phone, the poison center official urgently warnedReynolds that nobody should try mouth-to-mouth resuscitation.Marta and Scot Bradley had been too nervous to stay at the courthouse. Whenprosecutor Jim Dietrich called their home, they immediately put him on thetelephone speaker and they whooped and laughed and hugged and cried at the newsof the verdict. Then Dietrich told them about the apparent suicide attempt,which they initially did not believe. Then a later call informed them itappeared to be true."It was such a weird feeling," Marta says. "It was unsettling, and disturbing,like all he had done for the previous four years."At Howard County General Hospital, emergency room doctors and nurses workedfeverishly to try to save him, administering a cyanide kit that can reverse theeffects, if it's not too late. Outside in the waiting area, Gwendolyn Chmurnytold a reporter, "He's a good man. They planted evidence. Everybody is lying."Later she told Det. Vickie Shaffer that she didn't like dealing with the policebecause they always lied, and "everything was a conspiracy."The doctors were able to keep Alan Chmurny alive more than 18 hours, but therewas no way to reverse the damage of oxygen deprivation to his brain. He wasdeclared dead at 1:55 the following afternoon.Gwendolyn Chmurny would not agree to be interviewed for this story. Neitherwould her daughter, whose birth name was Linda Chmurny but whose married namebecame Chmurny Newton because she was determined to keep her rare family namealive. "We need it all to go away," the daughter says of the family's decisionto decline interviews. "It was so scary and so unbelievable. We just want to geton with our lives."Death was among Alan Chmurny's obsessions. "He often told me that he didn't knowhow he could continue living," Marta Bradley wrote to a circuit court judge in1999, trying to convince him that Chmurny was dangerous. "I felt very sorry forhim at the time. I tried to listen to his problems, because he told me he didnot have anyone to talk to."Chmurny once engaged her in a lengthy conversation about death, prompted by thedemise of a close friend of his who had cancer. "Aren't you afraid to die?" sherecalls him asking. When she explained that her belief in God helped her, hereplied, "I don't believe any of that stuff . . . No, I don't think there's aGod." When the conversation turned to the idea of Heaven, she says, Chmurny saidhe wished he could believe in it.As the conversation went on, Bradley says, she came to realize that he was notreally very troubled about his friend's death as much as the prospect of hisown. "I think he was scared," she recalls years later. "Death definitely wassomething he was afraid of."Chmurny clearly knew, though, that he was going to die that day in court. Heleft behind a brief suicide note, according to his friend Robert Kupper, whodeclined to discuss its details, except to say that it spoke about Chmurny'swife, his daughter and his dog. Just as his actions in life remained a mysteryto the people who thought they knew him, so too his motivation in ending hislife was also left unclear. Kupper says, "He said he simply could not take itanymore."Postscript: On December 29, the Bradleys filed a $ 6 million lawsuit, theirlawyer said, "because they essentially lost the first years of their marriagedue to Alan Chmurny's reign of terror." A Chmurny family lawyer called the suitagainst the Chmurny estate "salt in the wound for Mrs. Chmurny."Peter Perl is a Magazine staff writer. Staff researcher Bobbye Pratt contributedto this article. Perl will be fielding questions and comments about this articleat 1 p.m. Monday on www.washingtonpost.com/liveonline.</body>