A WOLF AT THE TABLE By Augusten Burroughs (unabridged, 9 hours, MacmillanAudio: 8 CDs, $29.95; audible.com download: $20.97)There has long been an impulse in the publishing business to make audio booksmore entertaining by introducing sound effects and music or by mountingfull-cast performances. Though this often propels a production out of the realmof literature into theatrics, there are books that were born for bells andwhistles, and Augusten Burroughs's A Wolf at the Table is one. This fifth memoirof abuse and excess is read, bleated, rumbled and, at times, tearfully shoutedby the author himself. The audio book includes sound effects and occasionalinstrumental music, and it breaks new ground by presenting four songs writtenexpressly for the production.There is one each from Patti Smith, Ingrid Michaelson, Sea Wolf and Tegan Quin("Augusten, if I write something beautiful will it squash the hurt that isliving deep inside of you?"). The songs smack vaguely of the New Age and make acurious contrast with this book, whose foul-breathed, skin-rotting,monster-metamorphosing creepiness transports the listener straight into StephenKing territory. Comic passages are rare, though one -- a brilliantly executedrendition by Burroughs of his father's emotionally obtuse, professorialdisquisition on "ought" -- is a triumph. This is really an audio book for fansof Burroughs, and maybe of horror. Others will find most of it harder to takethan the author's previous memoirs, which, if they did not possess the ring oftruth, were at least grotesquely funny.UNACCUSTOMED EARTH By Jhumpa Lahiri (unabridged, 10 hours, Random House Audio: 8CDs, $39.95; Books on Tape, www.booksontape.com: Collector's edition, 6cassettes or 8 CDs: $64)Sarita Choudhury and Ajay Naidu share the narration of Jhumpa Lahiri's splendidand deeply moving collection of eight short stories, Unaccustomed Earth.  Eachtakes full custody of three stories, and they share two, handing off thenarration as it switches between female and male points of view. This and anintroductory and concluding passage of music are the audiobook's only frills.Though both narrators are actors, they maintain low-key reading voices, a mutedstyle that is entirely in keeping with Lahiri's narrative temper. Indeed, theplainness of the performance grants these extraordinarily poignant stories ofdislocation, alienation and loneliness their full potency. Both Choudhury andNaidu read most of the text in American accents -- appropriately, as most of thecharacters are second-generation Indian Americans -- but they do deliver fineIndian cadences when characters demand it. It would have been nice if Naiduhadn't pronounced Nice biscuits "nice," but that is where criticism of thisperformance ends.THE SWORD IN THE STONE By T.H. White (unabridged, 9 3/4 hours, Naxos AudioBooks,www.naxosaudiobooks.com: 8 CDs, $54.98; audible.com download: $20.95 )A Royal Academy of Dramatic Art-trained actor, Neville Jason brings a fullrepertoire of voices to T.H. White's Arthurian tale, The Sword in the Stone. Hedelivers the narrator's passages with kindly, avuncular calm and gives eachcharacter his or her own voice. Among them is Wart (the boy Arthur), filled withyouthful eagerness; his friend Kay, tinged with callow conceit; Sir Ector,bluffly benevolent; Merlin, schoolmasterly; and wicked, wicked Madame Mim,malevolence incarnate ("Oh, what a lovely baby!/ How nice it would go withgravy"). The beasts and fish speak like English country folk for the most part,though the night congregation of hawks sounds marvelously like a mixed group ofShakespearean players and ex-colonials. And then there is valiant, stubborn KingPellinore, zealously what-what-ing over hill and dale in hapless pursuit of theQuesting Beast. The text of The Sword in the Stone was left in some disarray atWhite's death, but Naxos has produced a fine version that should transfix yourwhole family, perhaps on some summer quest of its own.WORLD WITHOUT END By Ken Follett (unabridged, 45 1/2 hours, Penguin Audio: 36CDs, $59.95; Books on Tape, www.booksontape.com: Collector's edition, $103.20;audible.com download, $41.97)Quite another England from days of yore emerges from Ken Follett's World WithoutEnd, which at over 45 hours approaches endlessness itself. This is a big read,addictive when taken through the ear, an old-fashioned family saga with all thefixings: murder, rape, treachery, foul machinations, doomed love, obsessivehatred, intoxicating suspense and liberal helpings of sweet revenge. Set in the14th century (viz. Black Death), it is a sequel of sorts to Follett's enormousPillars of the Earth, set 200 years earlier. The book's main characters areMerthin, a self-made man, and Caris, feisty and a healer -- a trait de rigueurin medieval heroines. The book is read by a virtuoso of historical novelnarration, John Lee, whose mellifluous voice comes with a Celtic torque. Hekeeps the cast of characters separate with discreet modifications of tone andaccent, effects that express their dominant character traits. Though one couldnever imagine taking the time to actually read this book, Lee's performancemakes it an enthralling salvation from the tedium of 21st-century tasks.Katherine A. Powers, who regularly reviews audio books for Book World, writes aliterary column for the Boston Globe.