Well, that must have been better than sweeping the Grammys: Michael Jackson,innocent on all counts. In the end, the erstwhile King of Pop showed he stillhas some moves, dominating prosecutor Tom Sneddon the way he used to dominatelesser rivals on the charts. I guess when you're the guy who made "Thriller,"you get the benefit of the doubt.And the remarkable thing is that it wasn't even close. By giving Jackson a cleansweep, the salt-of-the-earth jurors of Santa Maria, Calif., made clear theirrejection of the prosecution's entire case. No conspiracy, no lewd acts, noteven white wine disguised in soda cans and offered to pubescent boys as "Jesusjuice."Now, I guess,  Jackson's life can get back to normal  --  parties for kids atNeverland, footraces between the amusement park and the private zoo, thedesignation of one boy as Michael's special friend for a few weeks or a fewmonths, and, of course, the sleepovers.Sorry, Michael fans, but as you've probably gathered, the guy still creeps meout. I wouldn't let an adolescent son of mine spend the night in his bedroom,and I hope, perhaps vainly, that one salutary outcome of the trial is that otherparents won't either.In retrospect, the problem with the prosecution's case was that it was weak inthe specific but strong in the general. At issue was the question of whetherJackson molested and corrupted with alcohol one young man and conspired to whiskhis family off to forced exile in Brazil. But the family was, frankly, flaky inthe extreme. Their history of telling the truth was spotty, to say the least.That was why prosecutor Sneddon fought so hard to introduce the testimony ofpast alleged victims, and that testimony was, to my ears, devastating. It washard to escape the conclusion that there was a troubling pattern of behaviorhere  --  a middle-aged man inviting a succession of boys for sleepovers,showing them skin mags, finally paying them off with multimillion-dollarsettlements when they threatened to file charges.But there's no charge of "first-degree faux-juvenile dirty-old-man weirdness" inthe California penal code, and the jury found reasonable doubt on the specificcharges. Jackson was acquitted and may now don his single glove and walk ormoonwalk to freedom.If, indeed, you can call it freedom. From all accounts, Jackson is in somethingof a financial prison, spending $1 million a month on Neverland while his recordsales languish. His valuable music catalogue assets are mortgaged to the hilt,and now he has defense lawyer Tom Mesereau's bills to pay. Not to mention theumbrella-holder guy who escorted him to court every day.For a man who had just avoided a lengthy term in prison, he looked surprisinglygrim leaving the courthouse. Maybe he was thinking of the civil suit hisaccuser's family will no doubt soon file, and he's smart enough to know there'sa much lesser standard of proof in civil court. This case will continue to beexpensive for him, one way or another.But Michael Jackson is nothing if not resilient. I predict a comeback album andtour, coming soon to an arena near you.I've written in the past that the spectacle of Jackson on trial was irredeemablysad, and that's still true. Just the other day, shopping in an internationalfood market not far from my house that has an unusually high class of backgroundmusic, I heard the old Jackson 5 hit "ABC" and was reminded again howpreternaturally confident and polished Michael's singing was, how energetic, howfresh. He was the personification of youthful promise.I've also written that whatever happened at Neverland, the parents of the youngboys who shared Jackson's bed deserved a good measure of blame, and they stilldo. But why do I have the depressing feeling that there are other star-struck,emotionally and financially desperate families out there ready to take theirplace?If so, has this trial accomplished anything? I think it has. At least we knowthat beneath the childlike exterior, there's a shrewd and calculating man. Weknow that the image of Jackson as an aging, asexual Peter Pan is a lie. We knowthat, surrounded by his paid acolytes and his paid "friends" and his graspingfamily, Michael Jackson is one lonely man.He's not guilty on all charges. But I'll never look at him quite the same wayagain, and I suspect that you won't either.The author will be available to answer questions at 2 p.m. today  on www.washingtonpost.com. His e-mail address is eugenerobinson@washpost.com.