On the final weekend of a fiercely fought presidential campaign, President Obamaholds a narrow advantage over Mitt Romney in the crucial contest for theelectoral votes needed to win the White House, even as national polls continueto show the candidates in a virtual tie for the popular vote.In Congress, despite record levels of disapproval with the institution, votersseem likely to opt for the status quo - Democrats in charge of the Senate andRepublicans in the House.Democrats are expected to gain seats in the House but not the 25 needed torecapture the majority lost in the Republican sweep of 2010. In the Senate,Democrats hold a 53-47 majority, including two independents who caucus withthem. Although 10 or more races were considered too close to call through muchof the fall, Democrats are now in a position to maintain their majority,although perhaps barely.This election assessment, along with reports on all the states, is based oninterviews by a team of Washington Post reporters with strategists in the twoparties and both presidential campaigns, as well as state and local officialsand independent analysts. The assessment includes an analysis of polls onindividual states and races that have poured forth over the final weeks beforethe election.In the presidential campaign, the biggest and most consequential unknowns atthis point are the size and shape of the voting population. An electorate thatresembles or even slightly exceeds 2008 in terms of the share of minority votersvs. white voters would clearly benefit Obama. A slight decline in the minorityshare of the electorate and a more even split between Democrats and Republicans- closer to the 2004 electorate than 2008 - would greatly help Romney. Obama,however, may do better among white voters in some of the battleground statesthan he will do nationally.The latest Washington Post-ABC News national poll shows a dead heat thisweekend, with Obama and Romney both at 48 percent among likely voters. Thesurvey has barely fluctuated.Obama spent part of this past week in his official capacity as commander inchief as Hurricane Sandy devastated the Atlantic Coast, pummeling New Jersey andNew York the hardest. His attention to the cleanup earned praise from New JerseyGov. Chris Christie, a Romney supporter who delivered the keynote address at theRepublican National Convention.Almost half of all Americans said Obama's hurricane response would be a factorin their vote, according to the latest Post-ABC tracking poll. An earlier surveyfound that 79 percent rated his handling of the situation excellent or good.Another wild card is whether the latest jobs report will have a demonstrableeffect on an electorate deeply polarized and with few undecided voters left. Thereport, released Friday, showed that 171,000 jobs were added while theunemployment rate ticked up to 7.9 percent.PresidentialThrough much of the fall campaign, nine states have defined the presidentialbattleground: Colorado, Florida, Iowa, Nevada, New Hampshire, North Carolina,Ohio, Virginia and Wisconsin.Obama began the general-election race with a base of 18 states plus theDistrict, totaling 237 electoral votes. Romney began with a base of 23 states,totaling 191 electoral votes. North Carolina is tipping toward Romney and Nevadatoward Obama, putting the president at 243 and Romney at 206.Romney is making a late play in Pennsylvania and Minnesota and will campaign inthe Keystone State on Sunday. Both states continue to lean toward the president,but Obama's campaign has decided to send former president Bill Clinton toPennsylvania on Sunday for extra measure.Assuming those states continue to stay in Obama's column, the president wouldneed only 27 of the remaining 89 electoral votes to win. Romney would need 64 ofthe 89, which explains why Obama still has an easier - but by no means certain -path to an Electoral College majority. For example, he could win a second termsimply by winning Florida, which remains competitive.If the Sunshine State goes for Romney, then much will depend on Ohio, which iswhy it is the focus of so much campaign activity in the final days. Its 18electoral votes represent the bulwark of Obama's Midwestern line of defenseagainst Romney.If the president were to carry Ohio - and he continues to hold a narrow lead inpublic polls there - he could win an electoral majority by adding Virginia (13electoral votes) or Wisconsin (10) or Colorado (nine), or by winning Iowa (six)and New Hampshire (four).If Romney does not win Ohio, his path to victory would have to include Colorado,Florida, Virginia, Wisconsin and either Iowa or New Hampshire. But if he doescapture the Buckeye State, he could become president by taking Florida andVirginia and then just one other contested state.PollThe Post-ABC tracking survey underscored the closeness of the race nationally.During two weeks of polling, the largest lead by either candidate was 50 percentto 47 percent, favoring Romney. Obama's biggest was one point. Neither wasstatistically significant.Obama's job approval rating continues to hold at 50 percent, with 34 percentsaying they strongly approve and 39 percent saying they strongly disapprove.Romney holds a statistically insignificant three-point edge on who is trustedmore to handle the economy. Obama has a six-point advantage on who betterunderstands Americans' economic problems.Through most of the campaign and as recently as October, more voters offeredunfavorable than favorable impressions of Romney. Today a majority of likelyvoters has a favorable view. In fact, he and Obama are virtually tied on thismeasure: 54 percent say they have a favorable impression of the president, while53 percent say the same of Romney.For the first time in the Post-ABC poll, independent voters are evenly splitbetween the two candidates, at 46 percent each. Until now, Romney has held anadvantage ranging from three to 20 points. Obama leads among women by sixpoints, Romney among men by seven points.Obama is winning 38 percent of white voters and 78 percent of non-whites. Hegets 33 percent of whites without college degrees and 44 percent of whites withcollege degrees.CampaignObama's hopes for a second term rest on his ability to reassemble and motivate acoalition of African Americans, Hispanics, young voters and women, despitedisappointment and diminished enthusiasm since his historic 2008 victory.In Ohio, he is aided by the success of the auto-industry bailout and thecampaign's attacks on Romney's business background, which have bolstered thepresident's support among white working-class voters. Beyond that, Romney hasbeen hammered in Ohio for an ad suggesting that Chrysler's new owners plan toshift production of Jeeps to China, which the chief executive denied.Romney has a motivated base, with Republicans eager to defeat a president theythink is taking the country in the wrong direction. But he needs both a turnoutthat is large enough to make the GOP share of the electorate almost equal tothat of the Democrats. He also needs an edge among independent voters.For the past week, Obama's advisers have expressed confidence that the race istheirs to lose and that they will not lose it. "The economic debate hascrystallized," campaign manager Jim Messina said Saturday. "We have picked upsteam and now what we have to do is turn out our vote. We continue to lead orare tied in every battleground state and have the ability to get to 270electoral votes in a variety of ways."Romney advisers have said their polls show that the battlegrounds, particularlyOhio, are closer than public surveys suggest. They also say that an incumbentwho is not above 50 percent in the polls in the final days is in a precariousposition."When you take a look at the big three - Florida, Virginia and Ohio - we feelvery good," said Romney senior adviser Russ Schriefer. "Ohio is tight but it'stied and I think we've got some advantages there. I think then you look at therest of the map that, in a million years, the Obama campaign never thought theywould be campaigning in these states the weekend before the election."He added: "We're going to win this thing."SenateDemocrats appear poised to hold on to their narrow Senate majority on Tuesday, aprospect that as recently as a year ago seemed far more difficult, given thedisparity in the number of seats Democrats (23) and Republicans (10) had todefend.The turning point for Democrats may have been the surprise decision byRepublican Sen. Olympia J. Snowe (Maine) not to seek another term. Snowe wasconsidered a shoo-in for reelection but in her absence, former governor AngusKing, an independent who would caucus with Democrats, has emerged as a favorite.Then Republicans made a series of self-inflicted mistakes, two centering on thesubject of rape. Indiana Treasurer Richard Mourdock, who ousted longtime Sen.Richard G. Lugar in the GOP primary, gave Democratic Rep. Joe Donnelly anopening. Then Mourdock's comments at a late October debate - where he said awoman who becomes pregnant by rape is carrying a "gift from God" and thereforemust have the child - turned the race from a tossup to one that favors Donnelly.In Missouri, Rep. Todd Akin won the GOP nomination and days later made a commentabout "legitimate rape" rarely causing pregnancy that created a nationalfirestorm. Much of the party establishment abandoned Akin, but he refused todrop out of the race. Sen. Claire McCaskill (D) is favored to win reelection.Democrats have growing confidence that former Obama administration officialElizabeth Warren, a Harvard law professor, will beat Sen. Scott Brown (R) inMassachusetts. The contest is the premier Senate race in the country for theseat long held by the late Edward M. Kennedy (D).Republicans have a number of opportunities to pick up seats held by retiringDemocrats. Races in Nebraska and North Dakota, where Democrats are retiring,seem likely to fall for Republicans. Virginia has a very tight race between twoformer governors: Democrat Timothy M. Kaine and Republican George Allen. InMontana, Sen. Jon Tester (D) and Rep. Denny Rehberg (R) have been tied formonths.Even if several of those races tip to Republicans in the final hours, it stillseems unlikely that the GOP will add the four seats it would need to control theSenate if Obama is reelected or the three it would would need if Romney wins.The most likely outcome is no net change, or Republican gains of one or twoseats.HouseIn the battle for control of the House, it has become clear over the past fewmonths that the wave of elections that roiled the chamber in 2006, 2008 and 2010will not be repeated Tuesday. Democrats need 25 seats to regain the majority.Not even their most optimistic strategists think that is anything more than aremote possibility.Because of the decennial redistricting process, both parties will score heavygains in certain states. Republicans look poised to pick up at least three andmaybe four seats in North Carolina. Democrats could take five seats fromRepublicans in Illinois.After taking control of more governorships and state legislatures in 2010,Republicans had the political muscle to carve up new congressional districts totheir advantage. They shored up some of their most vulnerable incumbents anddrew difficult districts for Democrats.The result: Republicans are now likely to gain at least 10 Democratic seatssimply because of the partisanship of redrawn districts, and Democrats arefighting from behind in their effort to win back the House. That is why overallDemocratic gains may be held to the mid-single digits.balzd@washpost.comchris.cillizza@washingtonpost.comAaron Blake, Sean Sullivan, Jon Cohen and Scott Clement contributed to thisreport.