A more forlorn piece of property you will not find than Don Kreuzer's patch, onthe northwest corner of the intersection of 23rd Street, F Street and VirginiaAvenue, in Foggy Bottom. It is right on the edge of the George WashingtonUniversity campus -- and that's not a minor geographic detail: It's the wholeexplosive problem.Kreuzer's (rhymes with "cruisers") three row houses are nice enough: a stout,two-story brick structure on the corner, which Kreuzer lives in; and twoslightly dingier houses, one green, one white, attached on the north side, whichhe rents out. The catch is, there's nothing anywhere near them. Almosteverything else on the block has been razed, 26 town houses in all. The churnedearth of freshly empty lots, flecked with broken bricks and shards of concrete,stretches out all around. A lone telephone pole pokes up woozily out of thewasteland. Given how provisional the scene looks, you half-expect the wreckingball jockeys to be back tomorrow, to finish the job.The wrecking ball isn't coming back, but the construction workers are. Kreuzerwas the last holdout when GW bought up the block in the '90s. Soon, a 10-floorsuperdorm, with room for more than 700 students, is going up all but flushagainst his property -- not exactly a homeowner's dream.Kreuzer, a slim dentist with a round face and boyishly cut gray hair, contendsthat GW bought the land in an underhanded manner. "They basically isolated me,"he recalls. "They turned one neighbor against another. They swore individuals tosecrecy." But what really gets him is that the District of Columbia governmenthad ordered the university not to expand onto his block. GW officials "weretold, dictated, mandated to keep their hands off it," he says. It's true: In1988, the city Board of Zoning Adjustment decreed that the block was a crucialbuffer between the university and the neighborhood.University officials are unapologetic about their failure to respect the bufferzone. Any private developer, they argue, could have purchased the houses andtorn them down. Besides, they say, the buffer idea was always silly, because itwas mostly GW students who lived on the block anyway, paying rent to absenteelandlords, who all got good deals when they sold their run-down houses. Kreuzerjust set too high a price, GW officials say, so they had to build around him.Welcome to real estate hardball.Now District of Columbia planners and zoners have decided they've heard one toomany stories about GW's pushing its neighbors around. The acquisition of landoutside the campus boundaries, as in the Kreuzer case, is one touchy issue.Another is the steady flow of GW students into apartment buildings near thecampus, where their partying and irregular hours disturb longtime residents.Trying to rein in the university and its expansionist president, Stephen JoelTrachtenberg, the zoning board in December set strict minimums on the proportionof students GW must house within its existing campus boundaries. The ordereffectively compels GW to start building dorms on land it already owns -- notbuying up any more property in the neighborhood -- or else. If the universitybalks, it won't be allowed to build so much as a one-room shack anywhere on thecampus: no labs, no libraries, no new classrooms.Under Trachtenberg, GW has been all about growth. Since his arrival in 1988, hehas accelerated the university's transformation from a commuter college andgraduate-degree resource for government workers into a would-be top-100 researchinstitution. He has done it by bringing in more students paying more money,which has in turn financed more and nicer facilities, which has in turn broughtin better students paying more money.Anyone who has strolled lately through the GW campus can testify to the changes.It once looked like a random collection of buildings; you could cross it withoutrealizing you'd even been on a campus. Now there's a picturesque quad ringed byfiligreed iron gates; new buildings left and right; the thrum of student life inall its backpacked, nose-pierced glory.Growth has been the engine driving the improvement, but now the city has throwna wrench into it, and GW is fighting back. In January the university sued toblock the zoning board's order. The case's outcome could alter not just thelandscape of what's left of Foggy Bottom, but the arc of development for anup-and-coming university for years to come.If GW's history over the last decade has been one of rapid growth, its firstcentury was marked by grand designs and hopes all too often deferred or quashed.GW was Columbian College at first, its charter granted by Congress in 1821 andsigned by President James Monroe. Its first campus was not in Foggy Bottom, butbetween 14th and 15th streets NW, north of Florida Avenue. It was a Baptistinstitution, founded by ministers who first had to convince their colleaguesthat a college was compatible with virtue: Respectable thought had its doubtsabout sending impressionable young men away from home to live together.Small enrollments and a succession of cash crises were the main story for thefirst century. A medical school opened downtown in 1825, and the college itselfmoved to 15th and H streets NW in the 1880s. In 1904, the college became theGeorge Washington University, and in 1912 it established a beachhead at 20th andG streets, its first incursion into Foggy Bottom. GW's 15th president, CloydHeck Marvin, was a sort of proto-Trachtenberg, holding sway from 1927 to 1959and adding nine major structures to the campus, that growth fueled by an influxof GI Bill students. Lloyd Elliott, a courtly, shy man who served as presidentfrom 1965 to 1988, built up the campus further and laid down some importantmarkers in the quest for academic greatness. Then, in 1988, came HurricaneSteve.The new president had a mandate. "When Trachtenberg came to GW, he felt, and alot of people felt, that it was better than its reputation," says Jeffrey Henig,chair of the department of political science and director of the Center forWashington Area Studies. "The trustees strongly supported the idea that weneeded someone to toot our horn."GW's limited renown had hurt student recruitment, among other things. In 1988,the university attracted 5,900 applicants and admitted more than 80 percent ofthem. Almost all of the applicants came from a thin sliver of the East Coast,and even within that sliver there were gaps: One high school on Long Islandwould send half a dozen students to GW each year, while the guidance counselorin the school the next town over had never heard of the place. The rare timesthe phone rang in the public affairs office, it was often a reporter who hadmeant to call Georgetown.Trachtenberg was nothing if not a horn-tooter. He was coming off an 11-yearstint at the University of Hartford, where he'd charmed his way into the walletsof his institution's previously apathetic alumni, thereby putting thatinstitution on a newly solid footing. GW faculty members were a bit nervous,already convinced that it wasn't an academic's heart that beat in his breast,but that of a marketing-mad MBA (in fact, his graduate degrees are in law, fromYale, and public administration, from Harvard). He quickly got himself intotrouble with them by quipping that he viewed the GW job as basically that of CEOof "a conglomerate" that offered housing, food services, athletics, bookstoresand health facilities. "And on the side," he added, "we do a little education."From the moment he and his Fortune 100 ego stepped onto the campus, there wasspeculation about what his next aspiration would be. Politics, a la WoodrowWilson, one-time Princeton president? A bigger university?Here's the funny thing about all that talk. More and more, it's looking as ifTrachtenberg is a lifer. He is in the penultimate year of his contract andtalking about signing on for another five years, which would take him through toage 70. It's starting to make a lot more sense to think about his legacy thanhis next step.In fact, he says, he has come to realize it takes a decade to get traction as auniversity president; he feels he has really hit his stride only in the last fewyears. He's leaning back on a leather couch in an anteroom to his office,wearing dark banker's pinstripes fit snugly on his fireplug body. His roundwire-rims look tiny on his sizable head, below close-cropped gray hair. "I cando things with a phone call that would have taken me two weeks when I arrived,"he says. "I know people and they know me. I've been to weddings and funerals andbar mitzvahs and christenings, and I've been with people in their happy timesand their sad times. So there's a universe of colleagues, associates, favorsasked, favors done. All of which come together to give you a resource that can'tbe rushed."Long before he built up that useful network, Trachtenberg identified a basicfiscal problem at GW. It charged a lot less for tuition than schools it hoped torival, such as Northwestern or New York University, and it was top-heavy withgraduate students. Grad students are well and good (advancing the state of humanknowledge and all that), but, except in the professional schools, they don'thelp much with the bottom line, because they tend to get scholarships. Tuitionis especially important for GW because of its relatively meager endowment ($ 713million, compared with NYU's $ 1.1 billion or Northwestern's $ 3.3 billion). Sofrom 1988 to 2001, GW raised its tuition and fees from $ 9,771 to $ 26,140, morethan double the rate of inflation. Since 1998 alone, the number of full-timeundergraduates has swelled from 6,525 to 8,459. The university, meanwhile,houses only about half of those students in dormitories. That's what has caughtthe eye of neighbors and, more recently, city planners and the zoning board.Thanks to aggressive recruitment, a seller's market overall in collegeadmissions and (who knows?) maybe the men's basketball team's 1993 visit to theSweet 16 in the NCAA tournament, GW now enrolls students from across the country(North Dakota, the last state to fall, first sent someone in 1997). Last year GWattracted 16,000 applicants -- a 170 percent increase since 1988 -- and acceptedonly 49 percent of them. Despite worries about what the terrorist attacks woulddo to high schoolers' appetite for universities in Washington and New York,applications are up once more, and the acceptance rate might drop again.Meanwhile, former students are being hit up as they never have been: GW is inthe midst of a $ 500 million capital campaign, its largest such endeavor ever,and has raised the proportion of undergraduate alumni who give to the universityfrom a laggardly 16 percent to a Georgetown-rivaling 32 percent.Trachtenberg used some of the supply of cash to tackle thecollege-without-a-campus problem. In addition to Kogan Plaza, the somewhatprefabricated-looking campus quad, paved on one end with bricks bearing thenames of alumni, there is the spruce $ 27 million School of Media and PublicAffairs, opened last spring. It's got a television studio (complete with falseWashington backdrop) and an interview room from which GW professors' bons motscan be beamed directly to news shows. Even more important to today's hard-bodycollegians, a $ 37 million, four-story Taj Mahal of a fitness center debuted inAugust. A glass-skinned modernist addition to the student center is in theworks, as is a new home for the Elliott School of International Relations.Trachtenberg's critics tag him as a real estate mogul and an empire builder. Hescoffs at the name-calling, but it turns out that he does have a philosophy ofbackhoes and cranes. "You need to have something under construction," he says,in the same patient tone you might use to explain to a child that his petgoldfish needs to stay in the water. "Having something under construction sendsa nonverbal signal to people that all is well at the institution. It gives thema sense of promise, and of the future."Not content with building on his dense urban campus, Tracht-enberg went out andbought a more picturesque one. Since 1996 GW has owned the grounds and buildingsof Mount Vernon College, the former all-women's school in the tony NorthwestWashington neighborhood of Foxhall, near Georgetown University. Immediately, newathletic fields and tennis courts sprouted there, and more than 250 GW studentsnow live on the old Mount Vernon campus. It's not clear whether all this will bea coup (as some Georgetown professors think, since they were eyeing the land forthemselves), or, as the president himself has ruefully joked, "Trachtenberg'sFolly."Even faculty critics turned off by Trachtenberg's style are happy theirinstitution is on the move. Professors may roll their eyes upon hearing thatCNN's "Crossfire" is going to be broadcasting five nights a week from the newmedia and public affairs building -- another potential PR coup -- or uponlearning that GW has just unveiled a new corporate-style logo and typeface. Butthey are excited about a new plan to single out, through a competitive process,certain programs and departments and reward them with extra money, as a way ofbolstering GW's academic stature."When I got here 15 years ago," says Jarol B. Manheim, interim director of theSchool of Media and Public Affairs, "GW was a sleepy place with run-downfacilities, with students who didn't want to be here . . . There wasn't much ofa sense of direction." Trachtenberg, he adds, "turned it around.""I don't think there's a person in the world who could have done a better job inthat time period with this university," Manheim says.Certainly, there have been some false steps. GW's tight finances sometimes forceTrachtenberg to do some fancy dancing. In the mid-1990s that included siphoningwhat the American Bar Association determined was an unseemly amount of moneyfrom the GW law school, for the benefit of the rest of the university. Thenthere was the sordid sexual-assault charge against a basketball player two yearsago and some minor NCAA violations, a reminder that big-time sports, whichTrachtenberg had hoped would boost school spirit and keep GW's name on TV, canalso turn around and bite you, hard. While professors complain that there isn'tenough scholarship money to lure top graduate students, undergraduates complainabout an array of fees tucked into the tuition bill, from special line items forthe media and public affairs building and the fitness center to a $ 50 voluntarylibrary charge. "The campus joke," says Russ Rizzo, editor in chief of the GWHatchet, the student newspaper, "is that they're eventually going to put coinmachines on the stalls in the bathrooms."Undergraduates have also been frustrated over GW's ever-increasing enrollment,and their resentment hit a new high last year. "A lot of students thought theuniversity should be looking to reduce the incoming class so that academicfacilities would be enough for the students who are here," says Roger Kapoor, asenior and president of the GW Student Association. Students also suffer thegeneralized anxiety that comes from attending a school that's changing so fast:Is my tuition going to help me, or the class of 2010?It would be ironic if, after surviving potshots from journalists, professors andcarping students over the years, Stephen Joel Trachtenberg were laid low bysomething so mundane as zoning regulations.In some corners of Foggy Bottom, GW's president inspires heated language. "Asalesman," "ruthless," "uncouth" and "a con artist" are among the terms offeredby John Graves, GW class of '51, Foggy Bottom resident and longtimeanti-expansion activist. Maria Tyler, an advisory neighborhood commissioner inFoggy Bottom, draws on her childhood experiences in Lithuania. "I have livedthrough two dictatorships -- communism and Nazism," she says. "And now I am in athird dictatorship -- and that is GW!"Trachtenberg, of course, sees the real estate dispute differently. "A smallhandful of neighbors who are extreme in their views have seized the moment andhave gotten hold of the process," he says in his trademark brusque,Brooklynesque manner. "They spend a lot of time worrying about the issue anddriving the process and using all of its mechanisms, while the rest of thepeople go about their lives. And because we are like Gulliver we get caught upin the process. We find ourselves bound to the ground. And so we need lawyers toliberate us."Sara Maddux, a longtime State Department employee and Foggy Bottom activist,thinks the over-the-top rhetoric aimed at Trachtenberg hurts the cause. Adiminutive woman with shocks of gray in her dark hair, she offered to provide a"rational view" of GW's effects on the neighborhood during a walking tour ofFoggy Bottom, a near-circuit of the campus. In the first couple of blocks alone,she was able to point out a fine art-deco-tinged dorm that had once been anapartment building; a white Greek Revival structure formerly home to a privateclub, now GW's headquarters for entertaining visiting alumni; a string ofacquired town houses; two independent apartment buildings that have weathered aninflux of students. In the last 17 years, GW has acquired 35 local buildings,not counting the ones taken down on Kreuzer's block.Maddux had an eye not just for lost structures, but for other departedamenities, like the affordable restaurant once in the first floor of the FrancisScott Key Hotel. "We miss that," she said. "We've lost our small businesses, ourrestaurants, our grocery stores. There's only one grocery store in the area now-- and that's in the Watergate, which is quite a hike, especially for elderlypeople." There are only about 12,000 registered voters in Foggy Bottom, comparedwith the nearly 20,000 undergraduate and graduate students at GW.Maddux put me in touch with Ron Cocome, who has personally felt the effects ofGW's expansion. He lived for 14 years in Columbia Plaza, a massive, monolithicapartment complex across Virginia Avenue from Kreuzer's houses. Its scale andutilitarian appearance hint at its origins in an urban-redevelopment project,one designed to attract and keep middle-income residents in Foggy Bottom. Therehad always been a few students in Columbia Plaza, but in 1997, by Cocome'sreckoning, the trickle became a stream. "It wasn't that they were bad kids," hesays, "but they acted like the building was a dormitory. Worse than a dormitory:an unregulated dormitory." Packs of guys would return from bars at 2 a.m. andbang on their friends' doors, balcony parties became an all-hours phenomenon. "Ididn't care about the physical deterioration of the building. People talkedabout the ambience of the place, but I didn't care about that. But if you can'tcome home in peace after a full day's work and read a book and listen to somemusic without being disturbed, that's a problem."By the time we moved out, if you got one good night's sleep in 10, you werelucky." He fled in 2000. Marilyn Rubin, the president of the tenantsassociation, says things have only gotten worse.When people like Sara Maddux talk about the way Foggy Bottom used to be, theytend to refer to the place as it was in the 1950s, when it lured moderate-incomeworkers, mostly government types, through its proximity to downtown. But FoggyBottom has been through significant changes since the university first arrivedin 1912. Then, the neighborhood was an industrial quadrant, anchored by limekilns, breweries and a gas works. Massive gas tanks dominated the skyline.Over the next 50 years, the swampland to the south was filled in, creating theentire west end of the Mall, anti-slum legislation cleaned up a network ofback-alley shacks, and the State Department was installed (in 1947).From the 1940s to the '60s, Foggy Bottom flipped from being a majority-black,working-class neighborhood to an overwhelmingly white, middle-class precinct.And in the second half of the century, elephantine projects, including theWatergate, the Kennedy Center and the Theodore Roosevelt Bridge sliced up theneighborhood's western end in awkward, pedestrian-unfriendly ways."Ironically," says Jeffrey Henig of the GW Center for Washington Area Studies,"when there were periods of disinvestment and crime, and environmental concerns,the university's growth helped Foggy Bottom a lot."Trachtenberg puts things less diplomatically: "When GW came to Foggy Bottom, itwas a collection of breweries and coal chutes. And we took a gamble. We believewe are largely responsible for the condition that the Foggy Bottom area is intoday -- the very positive condition that the residents celebrate.""One hesitates to sound like a child and say, 'We were here first,' " he adds."But the record shows that we were here first."If GW was once a stabilizer, is it now a major disrupter? Both sides brandishdata to make their case. GW touts the money its students pump into the economy;its scholarships going to D.C. high school students; its status as the city'sbiggest private employer; the countless soup ladles handled by studentvolunteers. On the neighborhood activists' side, a retired business professorwho lives in the Watergate, Sol Shalit, has been cranking out papers documentingthe revenue loss each time a GW purchase takes a building off the D.C. taxrolls.Interestingly, economic effects aren't something zoning officials can considerwhen they evaluate a university's use of land. Their mandate is evaluatingwhether GW's existence has become "objectionable to neighboring property becauseof noise, traffic, number of students," or other bothersome traits. In 2000, thecity planning office concluded that GW had, indeed, become objectionable. Itsaid the neighborhood was at a "tipping point": If something wasn't done, FoggyBottom would simply disappear. Left behind would be one big campus.Hence the stringent new rules. By 2006, GW has to house 70 percent of itsfull-time undergraduates on its core campus. The 70 percent applies to the first8,000 students; beyond that, every additional student must be housed. There aretough interim requirements, too. By next fall, GW has to house 70 percent of itsstudents either on its campus or entirely outside Foggy Bottom. "We're notopposed to a university's expansion -- that's not even a question," says AndrewAltman, the athletic-looking, sleepy-eyed director of the city's planningoffice, who came to D.C. in 1999 after a successful tenure in a similar job inOakland. "The question is, How do you account for the cost of growth?""We didn't go out and invent standards" for judging GW, he says. "We applied theexisting, established regulatory framework. The difference was that we did applyit." Previous campus plans, he suggests, were rubber-stamped, GW's proposalsevaluated purely from the perspective of the university's needs.The legal battle ahead is a complex one. GW argues that the city has no right tokeep its students out of apartment buildings in Foggy Bottom; under D.C.'ssweeping human rights law, it is illegal to discriminate against students. Theuniversity argues, too, that there is no direct connection between thepunishment (a ban on future construction) and the problem (a need for moredorms). And GW says the whole thing is marked by arbitrariness: randompercentages, an unfair failure to count several apartment buildings that GW nowowns (but that lie outside the campus boundaries) as university-sponsoredhousing. Local and national educational groups have joined with GW, arguing thatthe university alone should decide whether to spend its limited resources ondorms or labs or professors' salaries. It's going to be a long haul: Both sidesare already looking past the decision in this round of the case, to appeals andbeyond.The easiest way to think about the issue might be as a battle of analogies: IsGW like a sports arena that draws thousands and thousands of people into aneighborhood, but fails to provide parking or to take responsibility for thefans' behavior? Or is this more like a civil rights case: Is limiting the numberof GW students in private apartments in Foggy Bottom really very different fromhanging up signs reading "No Blacks Allowed"?The people who are caught in the crossfire seem to grasp the situation'snuances. That is, the students. On an ebulliently sunny February day, threesophomores on GW's new quad talked cynically about Trachtenberg's marketingschemes. "They have to realize it's not about making GW a 'brand name.' It'sabout us," said Caroline Park.They had their stories to tell about clashes with angry residents. "They do notlike us," said Alicia Stauffer, who lives in an apartment-building-turned-dormthat still has a handful of longtime tenants. One recently refused to let herinto the building after she approached the entrance behind him without her key;instead he began shouting at her about GW's evil ways.The three students, however, could empathize with people who'd lived in FoggyBottom for decades, watching the university grow like a spreading ink blot. "Youcan feel for them," said Caitlin Caporale. Still, they had doubts about thecity's demands. No one wanted to commute to campus from a satellite dorm in,say, Chinatown. No one wanted to see the price of new residence halls reflectedon a tuition bill that is almost as steep as Harvard's.As they saw it, the interests of residents and students dovetailed: Limitingenrollment would mean smaller classes, more attention from professors -- evenbeing able to grab a snack when you wanted one, instead of having to wait inline for 20 minutes. "One thing that counts in the ratings" -- like the annualranking published by U.S. News & World Report -- "is selectivity," Caporalesaid. "They could work on improving that. They could also work on improvingalumni giving, so we don't have to rely so much on tuition.""It's just common sense," she said, "that enrolling more people causes problemsfor the people already here," whether students or residents.Is there a touch of financial naivete in such thoughts? Perhaps, but it wasrefreshing to hear someone who was at least trying to understand the otherside's view, especially after hearing Trachtenberg dismiss local activists'arguments as "emotional," and hearing them denounce him as a quasi-Nazi.To be fair, Trachtenberg has his empathetic moments. But then he's back barkingthat "cities change," and offering the following impolitic historical example:"We all know the story," he says, "of Manhattan once being an island full of,presumably, forest primeval."Don Kreuzer and his fellow residents of Foggy Bottom -- the natives in the woods-- are hardly likely to be soothed by such talk, preferring to view theirneighborhood as something more than virgin land awaiting settlement. And so theanimosity hardens. Cities may change, but the relation between GW and some ofits neighbors is stuck in a rut.Christopher Shea writes frequently for the Magazine. He will be fieldingquestions and comments about this article at 1 p.m. Monday on www.washingtonpost.com/liveonline.</body>