Where: Oakland, Md.Why: Country crafts, pastoral paths and blisterin' bluegrass.How far: About 175 miles or three hours from Rockville.The bluegrass boom of the past decade means that it has become ever easier tosee and hear the genre's biggest stars  --  even in cities and suburbs. Butthere's still nothing quite like a trip deep into the country to experiencebluegrass at its rootsy, down-home best and hear performers fiddle and pluckwith wild abandon.That's what two dozen musicians from Maryland and several nearby states will doat the Official Maryland State Banjo, Fiddle and Mandolin Championships onFriday and Saturday, where pickers and bow-scrapers will compete for cash asthey each speed through two songs in five minutes.You want authentic? The panel of judges doesn't allow any "gimmicks orelectrical equipment," which they say "overrate a contestant's ability toperform." Each competition is divvied up by age group (peewee, youth, junior andsenior), so you get to hear child prodigies like Stormy Keating, 10, who placedfirst in last year's peewee fiddler's contest. And keep an ear out for regularcompetitor Jack Crites, 61, 2004's senior first-place mandolin winner.Friday's bill will include a 7 p.m. musical performance by actor-turned-musicianBen Jones, who played Cooter on the old "Dukes of Hazzard" TV series.Accompanying Jones will be the General Lee  --  not the historical figure butthe (somewhat) historical car showcased in the "Dukes" TV show and movie. AnAmericana-style meal will be served (hot dog-chips-brownie-and-beverage combosfor $5). That and the $15 admission benefit  the Dove Center, which helpsvictims of domestic violence and sexual assault.This expedition into Maryland's mountain country starts at Joe's RecordParadise, a homegrown store with stock that answers the musical question: "Oh,brother, where art bluegrass?" At Joe's you can nab hard-to-come-by CDs by thelikes of Riders in the Sky and Hobart Smith. Purists can thumb through Joe's oldvinyl albums, which include titles by Jimmy Martin and the Sunny Mountain Boysas well as the Hotmud Family.Venture up I-70 into Myersville, and you come across the Ross General Store,which lives up to its name, since its wares range from bird houses to antiquebottles from Moxie Original Root Beer. If you need to stretch your legs, pulloff at Big Pool, where the Western Maryland Rail Trail snakes through 20 milesof all-encompassing wilderness.Get yourself a bucolic bellyful at Little Sandy's Restaurant at the HancockTruck Plaza, which is far classier than your average truck-stop eatery. Here,you can indulge in real meat 'n' potatoes fare, like the 12-ounce T-bone steakand an order of potato wedges. The 24-hour restaurant also serves upcountry-style breakfasts 'round the clock and boasts friendly waitresses whocall their customers "hon"  --  a sublime salutation whether you're frombluegrass country or a city slicker.   Tony SclafaniThe Official Maryland State Banjo, Fiddle and Mandolin Championships, SouthernHigh School, Gymnasium, 345 Oakland Dr., Oakland, Md., 301-334-6255,www.garrettdovecenter.org. Friday at 8 p.m. (banjo competition); Saturday at 7p.m. (fiddle and mandolin contests). $12-$15, younger than 12 free.Road Trip maps are available online at www.washingtonpost.com/roadtrip, as areaddresses and hours of operation (be sure to check before you go). Have an ideafor a trip? E-mail roadtrip@washpost.com.