RICHMOND - Ask delegates at the state Republican convention here why they admireKen Cuccinelli , their newly official candidate for governor, and the mostfrequent answer is that he's "a warrior."I've got no argument with that. But before Virginia voters cast their ballots inNovember, they have a right to know: a warrior for what?If Cuccinelli is elected, it's reasonable to expect that he'd use the powerfulgovernor's office to fight for the same causes that have made him a hero to the8,000 conservative activists here and to the tea party nationwide. That wouldmean more high-profile battles against Obamacare, abortion, environmentalprotection and gay rights.But despite Cuccinelli's frequent insistence that he's a special politician whosticks to his principles and plays straight with the public, the early signs arethat his campaign is trying to distract voters from the very positions that madehim famous.In his acceptance speech Saturday at the Richmond Coliseum, Cuccinelli made onlybrief, passing references to his antiabortion position and his unsuccessfulfight as attorney general against health-care reform.Instead, he went on and on about what he called his top priority of creatingjobs and growing the economy.His first two television ads took a similar approach. The first, featuring hiswife, Teiro, emphasized that Cuccinelli has fought to reduce sexual assaults andhelp the mentally ill and that he once worked the night shift at an ArlingtonCounty homeless shelter. The second ad was all about reducing taxes andregulation to make Virginia "an engine of job growth."Those are hardly the issues that excite the conventioneers. Delegate Mary Powersof Arlington praised Cuccinelli because he's "such a warrior" to protect theunborn. Delegate Elaine Corbo from Rockingham County likes him because he "comesout of the gate swinging" on such issues as health care and morality.It's clear what Cuccinelli's campaign strategy is aiming to do: He and hisadvisers want to copy the model for Republican success in Virginia used by Gov.Bob McDonnell four years ago.Like Cuccinelli, McDonnell had a record as an outspoken conservative advocate onsocial issues. But McDonnell deliberately played down those in the campaign. Hestressed that he'd be a pragmatist, especially on the economy andtransportation. His slogan, "Bob's for jobs," carried him to a landslidevictory.Republicans here praised Cuccinelli for pursuing the same strategy in his raceagainst Terry McAuliffe, former chairman of the Democratic National Committee."Ken gets that at this moment in time, the economy and job creation come first.. . . I think that's going to ameliorate some concerns that people have abouthim," said House Del. Jimmie Massie III (Henrico).The problem facing undecided voters is that although Cuccinelli is campaigninglike McDonnell, he wouldn't necessarily govern the same way.To a large extent, McDonnell followed the vision he laid out in his campaign. Hepublicly warned fellow Republicans in the General Assembly against pushingdivisive social issues. Although he was criticized for signing a bill requiringwomen to have ultrasounds before having abortions, he also forced the GOP toamend the bill to allow women to avoid the most invasive, transvaginal kind ofultrasound.It's not at all certain that Cuccinelli would lean toward the middle like that.He has likened the fight against abortion to the movement to abolish slavery.McDonnell also compromised on one of his signature issues - opposition to highertaxes - when it counted most. He agreed to raise gasoline taxes as part of thisyear's historic package to pay for roads and transit.For all of Cuccinelli's claims to stand for principle and plain speaking, he hassent mixed signals about the transportation bill. He strongly opposed it beforeit passed, saying Virginians couldn't afford such a massive tax increase. Nowhe's backed off, saying he wouldn't try to get it repealed.The shift could point to a newfound streak of realism, which I would welcome.But it could also just mask simple opportunism. A call for repealing thetransportation tax would split the GOP.McDonnell's decision to raise taxes wasn't popular at all with the delegateshere. But many praised the governor, albeit grudgingly, for putting the state'sinterests above the party's."In one way, he kind of weighed what was the bigger benefit," said Howard Hahn,an Augusta County delegate. Hahn disliked the tax hike but conceded that "weneeded to do something" about transportation.Cuccinelli needs to tell voters squarely whether he'd be ready to choosepragmatism over ideology in the same way.robert.mccartney@washpost.comFor previous Robert McCartney columns, go to washingtonpost.com/mccartney.