http://stats.washingtonpost.com/mlb/playerstats.asp?id=6708-URL-R.A. Dickeyexits the http://stats.washingtonpost.com/mlb/teamreports.asp?tm=21&report=teamhome-URL-New York Mets' Pentagon Cityhotel, jaywalks across South Hayes Street and makes his way underground to theMetro platform. "This thing," he grumbles, stepping gingerly down the brokenescalator, "is never working." He's not in a bad mood, per se - just a seriousone.It is Tuesday afternoon, and Dickey, 37, is headed to a therapy session -relationship therapy. Dickey and his knuckleball, they are making great progressthese days, their understanding of each other growing deeper and richer. But thework must never stop, lest they drift apart again. Later that afternoon, in thebullpen at Nationals Park, they will take their places and pick up where theyleft off last time."It's definitely a relationship," Dickey, who carries the best record in theNational League (8-1) into Thursday's start against the http://www.washingtonpost.com/sports/nationals-URL-Nationals, says before throwing hisstandard, between-starts bullpen session. "Sometimes we fight. There will betimes where I'm yelling at the baseball - like, 'Do I really know you?'"That's what keeps me invested. [The knuckleball] can grow. It's not just aninanimate thing. It's very much a living thing. It's very organic."The relationship between Dickey and his knuckleball wasn't always at this loftyplace, with Dickey holding a 2.69â[#x2c6][#x161] earned run average roughly athird of the way through the season. Theirs was an arranged marriage - forcedupon them seven years ago by the management of the Texas Rangers, who notedDickey's expanding ERA and declining velocity, and suggested, in no uncertainterms, that for the sake of his own career he reinvent himself as aknuckleballer."It's important to be honest about what you're not good at," Dickey says. "Whenthe Rangers came to me and said, 'We don't think you can do it anymore as aconventional pitcher,' there were 29 other teams out there that I could havetaken my chances with. But I identified in myself that I wasn't good enough, Iwas very mediocre. . . . I like truth. I'm drawn to it in an effort to grow as aperson. A big part of that is self-awareness."The flight of the pitch is the perfect metaphor for my life anyway - the upsand downs, the grappling with it, the chaos of it."A belief in redemptionDickey is, without question, the Most Interesting Man in Baseball. It isn't justthat he speaks of his primary pitch as if it were a living, breathing thing, orof his development of that pitch as a relationship - but it is partly that. Heis the only knuckleball pitcher left in the majors, and only a knuckleballerwould speak in such a way.But he is also a voracious reader of Big, Important Books (for example, "My Nameis Asher Lev," by Chaim Potok; "Life of Pi," by Yann Martel), a former Englishmajor at the University of Tennessee, a born-again Christian and an avidbicyclist. This past winter, he climbed Mount Kilimanjaro in Tanzania - despitethe Mets threatening to void his contract if anything happened to him - tellingNew York magazine, "The scope of the mountain resonated with me."He is also a medical marvel, possessing no ulnar collateral ligament in histhrowing elbow, which first came to light after the Rangers drafted him in 1996- doctors concluded either he was born without it, or it disintegrated duringhis youth - and which cost him a small fortune, since the Rangers lowered theirsigning-bonus offer from $810,000 to $75,000 upon discovering the missingligament.And this spring, he became an author, releasing an autobiography, "Wherever IWind Up: My Quest For Truth, Authenticity and the Perfect Knuckleball," that onereviewer called the "best non-fiction baseball book since Jim Bouton's 'BallFour.' "Most media accounts of Dickey's book focused on its salacious revelations - themultiple episodes of sexual abuse that Dickey suffered as an 8-year-old; themarital infidelity Dickey inflicted upon his wife, Anne (with whom he remainsmarried, with four kids); and his discovery of a syringe on the Rangers'clubhouse floor in 2001."I certainly believe in redemption," Dickey says of his decision to be soforthcoming in the book. "Hope and redemption go hand in hand, but in order toget to redemption you have to walk through quite a bit of darkness, and for me,being honest about a past that was difficult and dark is part of the process ofbecoming fully me."But at its core, the book is a tale of twin journeys, those of his professionallife and his personal life, that both reached tipping points when he was in hisearly 30s - and that, as Dickey discovered, were not actually separate journeys,but facets of the same one."Do you think that it's a coincidence that when I was finally able to stophiding as a human being, I also stopped hiding as a pitcher?" Dickey wrote. "Idon't."A chance to exploreThe Most Interesting Man in Baseball steps off his Yellow Line train at theL'Enfant Plaza Metro stop, walks across the overpass and climbs down to theplatform to catch the Green Line to the Navy Yard/Nationals Park stop. Not oneperson appears to recognize him during the approximately 20-minute ride from theteam hotel to the stadium.Dickey is a connoisseur of urban subway systems, riding them in any road citywhere there's a stop at the ballpark, and at even at home in New York. "NewYork's subway system," he marvels, "is the eighth wonder of the world."He mentions the San Francisco Bay Area, Atlanta, Chicago and Washington amonghis favorite subway systems on the road, although nothing, he said, compares tothe old Canadian cities of the Pacific Coast League - Calgary, Edmonton andVancouver, none of which remain in the PCL."Calgary, now that was an awesome subway system," he says. "You'd ride to thestadium, get a table at an outdoor cafe downtown, and ride back to your hotel."Dickey values both the opportunity to explore a city the way the locals getaround, and the element of adventure it brings. He has gotten lost more thanonce. One time, in Washington, he switched to the wrong train, ascended to thestreet level to get his bearings and found himself outside of the U.S. HolocaustMemorial Museum. Realizing he had a little time to kill before he needed to beat the ballpark, he went inside."I have," he says, "a very devout interest in growth."Though he has been in professional baseball for 16 years, and first broke intothe majors 11 years ago, it was only in 2010, his first season with the Mets,that Dickey established himself as a solid, dependable, effective big leaguestarting pitcher. First, he had to straighten out his life, and crooked-out hispitches.Around the same time he made the switch from conventional pitcher toknuckleballer, he began seeing a psychotherapist, Stephen James, in his nativeNashville - and eventually revealed to him the scars from his past."I hated myself. I really did," Dickey says. "It was hard to look in he mirror.I was tired of projecting out one person while inside I was somebody totallydifferent. And I got to a point of real brokenness with that. That's when I wasintroduced to Stephen in Nashville, and he talked to me about a different way tolive, and I embraced that."When I was presented with a different way to live, it's almost like I'd beenwaiting on it my whole life. I was 31, 32 years old when I really got started,when my growth really began for me. I've grown more in the last six years than Idid my previous 30."A limited fraternityMeantime, Dickey plowed forward with the switch to the knuckleball, first withthe Rangers organization - his first and only big league start for them as aknuckleballer, in 2006, was a disaster, as he gave up a record-tying six homeruns - then with the http://stats.washingtonpost.com/mlb/teamreports.asp?tm=12&report=teamhome-URL-Seattle Mariners andhttp://stats.washingtonpost.com/mlb/teamreports.asp?tm=09&report=teamhome-URL-Minnesota Twins.Former Rangers knuckleball ace Charlie Hough worked with him extensively,showing him a new grip and a repeatable delivery, and he later got lessons fromnoted knuckleballers Phil Niekro and Tim Wakefield. The small cadre ofknuckleball specialists acted very much as a fraternity."There's an instant bond because we're the only ones who have walked a mile ineach other's shoes," Dickey says. "I used what they gave me and infused thepitch with my own personality."Dickey's knuckler is different from others in that it is harder - typically inthe mid- to high-70s, as opposed to the mid- to upper-60s. As a result, he isable to keep it in the strike zone with consistency unmatched for aknuckleballer, while still fooling hitters with its flutters."He's got the rising one, the sinking one, the sideways one - it's tough tohit," says Nationals slugger http://stats.washingtonpost.com/mlb/playerstats.asp?id=7562-URL-Michael Morse. "You see it, and by the time youswing it's in another spot. Squaring up his knuckleball is tough. You basicallyhave to go up there and take all your mechanics and everything you've learned,and throw it out the window, and just kind of go Little League - just swing ashard as you can and hope you make contact."Most of Dickey's rate statistics through his first 11 starts of 2012 are runningat career highs - including his walk rate (2.1 per nine innings) and hisstrikeout rate (8.6 per nine innings) - and he is positioned, with anothermonth's worth of solid performance, to make his first all-star team."That would be nice," he says. "It would be recognition that what you do islegitimate, and just because you throw a knuckleball doesn't mean you can't bejust as valuable as the 100-mile-per-hour-fastball guy."Everyone thinks the 100-mph-fastball guy has it all over the knuckleball guy,but Dickey knows better.The fastball isn't a living thing; it's a rock in a slingshot, a bullet. Theydon't have a relationship; it's a one-way street. The fastball guy may love hisfastball, but without that shared history, without the trust built up throughunderstanding each other's needs, it will never love him back.sheinind@washpost.com