A colleague forwarded me an e-mail the other week from a friend of a friend.What's up with this? he asked me.The e-mail was a chain letter about breast-cancer funding, sent from sender'swork e-mail and then forwarded on to many other people's work e-mail. At thebottom of the letter, the corporate legalese stated:This message contains information from [insert unwitting company's name here]which may be confidential and privileged. If you are not an intended recipient,please refrain from any disclosure, copying, distribution or use of thisinformation and note that such actions are prohibited.Needless to say, the e-mail did not contain information from the company. And itwas disclosed, copied and distributed.We all receive chain e-mails from friends and family who often send totallynon-work-related e-mail from their work address. Often with a similar disclaimerat the bottom. Was this company allowing someone to forward a benign butobviously not work-related e-mail to more than two dozen people? No. And theirrules stated so. But does it happen? Every minute, every day.Every week employees receive up to 30 chain letters, jokes, video clips orsimilar junk e-mail messages from someone they know, according to a study bymarket research firm Market Facts. This means many American workers have to dealwith more than 1,500 pieces of junk e-mail each year just from friends, familyand colleagues.What does this mean for us? Lost time at work. Lost productivity for us and ourcompany. And lots of extra hours for the tech folks who are already worryingabout how to stop the ever-growing amount of incoming spam."We have to give employees rules to write by. Employees don't understand therisks of e-mail," said Nancy Flynn, executive director of the ePolicy Instituteand co-author of the book "E-Mail Rules." "They don't know what [the company's]rules and policies and procedures are unless you put them in writing and educatethem about it."Three-fourths of all companies put workplace e-mail policies in place not onlyto encourage employees to get back to work, but because a company can be heldliable for e-mails sent from its e-mail system.In fact, 27 percent of Fortune 500 companies have defended themselves againstclaims of sexual harassment stemming from inappropriate e-mail or Internet use,according to the ePolicy Institute, a training and consulting firm that studiesInternet and e-mail usage. Chevron had to pay female employees $2.2 million tosettle a sexual-harassment lawsuit stemming from inappropriate e-mail sent bymale employees.But it's not just the companies that can get in trouble.In 2003, 22 percent of employers reported they had terminated an employee forviolating e-mail rules, according to a 2003 e-mail survey from AmericanManagement Association, the ePolicy Institute and Clearswift, which makessecurity software. That number has grown from just 14 percent in 2001. Ofcourse, those who were terminated were probably not the people who sent ane-mail about breast-cancer funding, but more likely those who sent sexuallyoriented or harassing e-mails.Threatening termination or not, companies are starting to make sure employeesknow what the rules are, said Flynn. Some companies allow employees a certainamount of time each day to send appropriate personal e-mails. Others will telltheir employees to tell friends to send them e-mail to a non-work account.Digging through e-mail takes up precious hours every day. Although there aremany spam-filter software programs out there, a lot of times those programsdon't filter out the "Pass On a Prayer or You Will Have Bad Luck" e-mails youget from your Great-Aunt Edna. Which means that many workers not only have todeal with annoying commercial spammers, but also miscellaneous missives fromco-workers, friends and family. (The average employee spends 25 percent of theworkday on e-mail, with 8 percent of workers devoting more than four hours a dayto e-mail, according to the survey.) But many of us have come up with our ownsolutions in dealing with the friendly junk e-mail."I just don't open it," said Brian Chavis, chief executive of the ARGroup Inc.,a computer network services company in Leesburg. If he sees something that hintsat a forwarded mass e-mail, he usually hits delete, no matter who it is from.His wife passes some chain-letter-type e-mails back and forth with friends. Buthe said she knows better than to send them his way. E-mail to him is justbusiness.Sometimes, when Chavis does receive a forwarded e-mail from someone he knows, itchanges his opinion of them. "Occasionally I'll get one from somebody [I was]just convinced knew better," he said. "If you get a hoax that people haven'tchecked out, they just appear to be very, very naive."One woman said that when she receives the annoying hoax e-mail from theoccasional friend or colleague, she heads to www.urbanlegends.about.com, andreplies to everyone on the list with a link showing it was a hoax.The woman always adds a note: "This site is great because you can check out thevalidity of the e-mail before you send it."Hint, hint. No, Neiman Marcus really didn't charge $200 for that cookie recipe.Now get back to work.Join Amy Joyce from 11 a.m. to noon Tuesday at www.washingtonpost.com to discussyour life at work. You can e-mail non-chain letters to her atlifeatwork@washpost.com.