GGuys were always peeling off their shirts at punk shows. Why couldn't she? ¶ Itwas June 27, 1991, and the District was sweltering. Just like Kentucky the nightbefore. Just like Alabama the night before that. ¶ Enough. Kathleen Hannamarched on stage wearing a black bra she'd found at a thrift store, bracingherself for another night of heckles, threats and projectiles.Instead, the singer of Bikini Kill felt the room turn upside down. Or maybe,finally, right-side-up. ¶ "I remember halfway through the show being like,'People are really getting this,' " Hanna says. "It was like they had beenwaiting for us." ¶ Outside the District, Bikini Kill was ahead of its time. ¶Formed in Olympia, Wash., in 1990, the quartet helped launch riot grrrl, aradical feminist movement that would spread from Adams Morgan group houses tothe pages of Newsweek. They coined the term "girl power" in a photocopiedfanzine years before the Spice Girls spelled it out in bubble gum. They werepals with Nirvana before Nirvana was Nirvana. (Kurt Cobain took the title for"Smells Like Teen Spirit" from some graffiti that Hanna drunkenly scribbled onhis bedroom wall.) They wrote brilliant, abrasive punk salvos that would inspireSleater-Kinney, the Gossip, embattled Russian group Pussy Riot and a generationof others.And when Bikini Kill crash-landed in the District's activist-friendly punk sceneafter a sleepless tour of towns that had never heard rock songs about rape,domestic violence, empowerment and equality, they found a new home."The D.C. scene was unapologetically political," bassist Kathi Wilcox says."Everyone was like, 'We understand your band perfectly.' "Instead of lingering in the back of d.c. space - the now-shuttered venue atSeventh and E streets NW - the girls in the audience rushed to the front to seeBikini Kill's big splash up close. Instead of barking slurs, the guys danced."I can remember exactly where I was standing. It was that kind of show," saysIan MacKaye, then of local punk giants Fugazi. "The shape of the songs, thepresentation, the charisma was pretty undeniable."Six days later, MacKaye brought the foursome - Hanna, Wilcox, guitarist BillyKarren and drummer Tobi Vail, all in their early 20s back then - to Arlington'sInner Ear Studios, where they spent the afternoon recording what would becomethe core of Bikini Kill's furious debut. Released 20 years ago this autumn, theself-titled EP is being reissued on Tuesday.After the session, the band decided to stick around for the summer, but ended upliving in Washington for its most pivotal year, rallying an undergroundcommunity that would ultimately suffocate the band with its impossibleexpectations."We were trying to keep the outside world from killing us," says Hanna, sippinga latte with Wilcox at a Manhattan cafe on a recent afternoon. "So the tensionwithin the band that wasn't resolved . . . it came out on stage. When you see aband that's on the verge of falling apart with a really angry lead singer . . ."Wilcox completes the thought, "It's not boring."The start of riot grrrlWashington's coffee options were bleak. So the transplants endured Folgers fromSafeway until Vail's mom started mailing oversize bags of beans from home. Hannaremembers when the first neighborhood Starbucks opened, "Everyone was like,'Corporations are taking over the world!' and we were like, 'Woo-hoo!' "That summer, the members of Bikini Kill would each adapt differently toWashington.Vail passed on being interviewed for this story via e-mail: "I don't remembermuch about DC except being depressed and homesick." Karren almost never givesinterviews and also declined."For me, it was a homecoming," Hanna says. "This was going to be me taking overmy not-so-great history of growing up here. . . . What do you call that?Repetition compulsion? Where it's like you go back to the scene of the crime,but this time it all works out?"Hanna grew up in the Maryland suburbs and in the early days of Bikini Kill, sheonly spoke obliquely about the sexual abuse she suffered as a child. During herstudent years at Evergreen State College in Olympia, she worked as a counselorat a domestic violence and rape shelter and continued to counsel fans backstageat Bikini Kill concerts."That's part of why I wanted to be in a band," Hanna says. "I could walk up to a15-year-old and ask her [switches into nerd-voice], 'Would you like to join mysupport group?' But if I say that from the stage and I'm in a cool band, they'regonna come."Fanzines were another way to reach out. So one night in early July, Hanna and afew friends gathered around a Capitol Hill Xerox machine to run off copies of"Riot Grrrl," a handmade pamphlet that Hanna daydreamed of developing into aglossy magazine about feminism and music.Instead, riot grrrl morphed into an activist group that held regular meetings todiscuss empowerment, organization, safety and support in the punk community. Asthe meetings gained momentum in Washington, participants started exporting theirideas to the rest of the country through a network of pen pals andself-published fanzines.Hanna was eager to spread the word on stage, but she and her bandmates werewaiting on Wilcox. The bassist had spent the summer traveling in Europe andMorocco, trying to solve coffee-related conundrums of her own."I remember Kathi bringing back a picture of her using a bikini top as a coffeefilter," Hanna says. But by then, the singer had no use for caffeine."I was running on straight adrenaline."The revolutionThe District set a record in 1991 with 482 homicides. One occurred in a basementapartment not far from the one Hanna was renting on Adams Mill Road NW. Thevictim was a single woman, living alone, just like her. Maybe the death threatsthat kept landing in her band's mailbox weren't something to shrug off."Our home address was published in our fanzine," Wilcox says. "So letters wouldcome like, 'I'm gonna . . . stab you in the heart.' "At home and on tour, Bikini Kill's ideals were met with a macho hostility that'sdifficult to imagine today. Transforming fear into motivation became a survivaltactic."The more [threats] we got, the more I knew we were on the right trail," Hannasays. "I just kept telling myself, 'We're on the right side of history.' "Wilcox, Karren and Vail were too broke to buy a deadbolt for the group housewhere they were crashing - a three-story rowhouse in Adams Morgan dubbed "theEmbassy" by its residents, Nation of Ulysses. The dazzling punk quintet hadbefriended Bikini Kill out west and toured with them back to the District afterhyping them to friends back home."They were the thing that a lot of people were waiting for, even if they didn'tknow they were waiting for it," says former Ulysses frontman Ian Svenonius. "Ithink I probably encouraged them to move here, but I would never tell peoplethat D.C. was some Haight-Ashbury."Still, the city's mythic punk scene was in its second bloom. A decade afterMinor Threat and Bad Brains established Washington as the global epicenter ofhardcore punk, Fugazi, Nation of Ulysses and dozens of other proudly independentrock bands were earning Washington a vaunted reputation.From the outside, many saw the D.C. scene as an alternative to the "alternative"rock universe being peddled on MTV - the Nirvanas and Pearl Jams and the like.In the basement of the Embassy, Bikini Kill got down to penning some of the mostvital rock-n-roll of the era, including the band's signature anthem, "RebelGirl.""I remember feeling like that song got pulled out of the air," Hanna says. "Witheverything that was happening, it was like, 'I'm not even writing this, thescene is writing this.' "She sang it back to the scene at Bikini Kill's biggest Washington show - a July25, 1992, concert outside the U.S. Capitol with Fugazi. Talk of Anita Hill andDesert Storm had dominated the conversation during Bikini Kill's year inWashington, but the band rarely addressed national issues head-on. Now, thelyrics of "Rebel Girl" were echoing off the Capitol marble:When she talks, I hear the revolution.In her hips, there's revolution.When she walks, the revolution's coming.In her kiss, I taste the revolution.Hanna and Wilcox don't remember revolution arriving that afternoon. Theyremember that parking the van was impossible and that bathrooms were really hardto find.Touring and burnoutBikini Kill left the District to tour in 1992 and never came back, scattering todifferent cities before finally reconvening in Olympia in the mid-'90s.Olympia's small-towniness felt claustrophobic. Everyone had read the articles inSeventeen and Newsweek, articles about riot grrrl that distorted the movement'smessage and spun the community into disarray.As the band dodged the media crush, strangers would approach Hanna on theOlympia streets, trying to befriend her and blame her for ruining the scene inthe same breath. Wilcox calls the band's final days "a recipe for losing yourmind."Touring was just as disorienting. "Our shows felt super schizophrenic becauseyou had girls in the front row singing the lyrics to every single song as if itwas their song that they wrote," Hanna says. "And then you had guys who wantedto murder us. At the same show! . . . It's only five dollars to throw a beerbottle at someone's head, so why not?"But as the group continued its slog, it was impossible not to notice its impact.All across the country, women were starting bands.Jenny Toomey, leader of the veteran D.C. indie troupe Tsunami, remembers theshift. "Touring before Bikini Kill and after . . . it was drastic," Toomey says."Sometimes there was a girl playing bass, but you didn't have girls singingtheir stories."Unfortunately, Bikini Kill's story ended in total burnout. Fiercely committed topunk's do-it-yourself ethos, the band became a cipher with no support system. Nomanager. No booking agent. Not even a roadie."We didn't have the best interpersonal communication skills," Hanna says. "Whenyou galvanize against what feels like a hostile exterior, you end up not talkingto each other."Everything finally crumbled in 1997 when Hanna and Wilcox fled Olympia in aU-Haul cargo van, Hanna's cat riding in a crate between the two front seats.Wilcox hopped out in the District, where she was dating Fugazi's Guy Picciotto.Hanna drove south to Durham, N.C., where she would move in with friends and takejob doing data entry.She left one of the most influential rock bands in America with $400.After the breakupIf life in Bikini Kill was interminably tough, life after Bikini Kill wasbriefly devastating."I cried for like a year," Hanna says of the break-up. "I just felt like I lostmy family and my band at the same time and I didn't know who I was anymore."Wilcox, however, was eager for anonymity. She chopped off her peroxide-blondelocks, started walking dogs in D.C. and eventually took a day job where only afew colleagues had ever heard of Bikini Kill - in the newsroom of The WashingtonPost, where she worked until 2006.(I first met Wilcox when I was hired by The Post in 2001. More disclosure:Svenonius is a friend and MacKaye is a mentor who released my old band'srecordings on his label.)Hanna, meantime, was quickly drawn back into the warmth of the spotlight. In1998, she formed the acclaimed electro-pop trio Le Tigre in New York, where shenow lives with her husband, Adam "Ad-Rock" Horovitz of the Beastie Boys.Wilcox now lives in New York, too, and has joined Hanna's new band, the JulieRuin, an extension of Hanna's old solo project of the same name. They'verecorded an album they hope to drop next year. Vail and Karren live in Olympia,and all four are still in touch, having recently launched an eponymous label toget the Bikini Kill discography back in circulation."A lot of our band was just survival," Wilcox says. "It was exhausting. So whenwe broke up, it took us years to re-fortify. . . . Now, we can finally say,'Yeah, what we did was important and we're really proud of it.' And we can keepit in print."As for Bikini Kill's Washington, D.C., it's hardly recognizable.When the band arrived in the nation's capital, there were two women in theSenate. In January, there will be 20. Last year, Washington saw its lowestmurder rate since 1963. MacKaye, Svenonius and Toomey are still in town, stilldeep in music, but Fugazi, Nation of Ulysses and Tsunami are all long gone. Theold d.c. space is even longer gone.Today, it's a Starbucks.richardsc@washpost.comTo read other interview excerpts from this story, go to washingtonpost.com/style.CORRECTION-DATE: December 9, 2012CORRECTION:A Nov. 19 Style article about the band Bikini Kill incorrectly said that membersof the band lived in a group house, nicknamed "the Embassy," in Adams Morgan.The house was in Mount Pleasant.