The federal government has moved to withdraw Medicaid funding from five Districtgroup homes for the mentally retarded, citing serious risks to the residents,including questionable care of a woman who failed to receive seizure medicationand later died.A separate U.S. Justice Department study makes clear that top city officials hadknown for months about specific, detailed problems in the group home system,long before they took significant steps to correct the conditions. Documentsshow that one 34-year-old man died in December, six months after federalinvestigators had warned city lawyers of critical problems with his care.In December, Mayor Anthony A. Williams (D) said he was outraged by the systemicproblems and ordered a police inquiry into questionable deaths. But the federalactions raise questions about the pace at which Williams has moved to remedyfailures, ranging from abuse and neglect to inadequate basic care.The new findings are contained in four Justice reports and a series of reviewscompiled by the Health Care Finance Administration, a part of the Department ofHealth and Human Services that oversees Medicaid programs. The federal reviewswere launched after stories in The Washington Post in March that detailed abuse,neglect and unexplained deaths among mentally retarded wards of the city. Cityofficials began receiving warnings about serious problems shortly after theJustice investigation began in the spring but did little to address them untilDecember, after a second Post investigation.It took less than a week for a team of HCFA surveyors to find seriousdeficiencies at at least half of the 13 group homes. Since then, the agency hasnotified three providers--Comprehensive Care II, D.C. Health Care Inc. and theKennedy Institute--that at least one of their homes had failed to meet federalMedicaid requirements and was at risk of being closed.Williams has designated the Kennedy Institute to direct the coalition of privateagencies to overhaul services for the mentally retarded.Federal sources said that when the reviews are completed, at least two morehomes will face loss of funding.Separately, investigators hired by Justice found overuse of psychotropicmedications, threats to safety by violent housemates, broken wheelchairs, poordental care, unsafe transportation, inadequate staff training and shoddymanagement of personal funds belonging to the mentally retarded."I have no faith in the city yet," said Steve Eidelman, executive director ofthe ARC of the United States, the country's largest advocacy group for theretarded. He said the federal actions exposed poor management by providers andthe District.Deputy Mayor Carolyn N. Graham acknowledged that the city could have intervenedmuch earlier. "Should we have been more aggressive than we were? Absolutely,"Graham said.She said the city is assessing the risk at homes and setting priorities for themost vulnerable residents that could include moving them to new homes.Graham said that she was not surprised by the HCFA findings and that theDistrict was working closely with the group homes to bring them into complianceto avoid a funding cutoff. Meanwhile, she said, residents in those facilitieswill undergo an intensive 90-day assessment to make sure they are not at risk.At D.C. Health Care, health surveyors found three homes that violated Medicaidstandards, including one at which several clients had unexplained bruises andswollen ankles. D.C. Health Care also had cared for Patrick Dutch, a severelyretarded man who died last summer after being overlooked and left for sevenhours in a van when workers at his group home thought he'd been dropped off athis day program.At a Northwest Washington home operated by Comprehensive Care II, federalreviewers described medical blunders during the last 17 months of the life ofMargaret Bicksler, a 51-year-old with a seizure disorder.The review shows staff violated group home policy by failing to call 911 aftersome of her seizures. Also, from March through September of last year,Bicksler's anti-epileptic drugs were not administered three times a day asprescribed.Bicksler died in September. A group home "incident report" indicated that shewas found face down on her bedroom floor, not breathing. A worker administeredcardiopulmonary resuscitation and called 911, but Bicksler was pronounced deadat Providence Hospital. The Department of Human Services listed "aspiration" asa tentative cause of death.Citing the case as an example, the federal review stopped short of blaming thegroup home for the death but said its care "poses a serious and immediatethreat" to other residents.In a response letter, the home administrator, Rodwell Buckley, told healthregulators that there was no ongoing threat because "the only client that wasdiagnosed of seizure disorder is no longer at this facility location, therebythe threat has been removed." The client who no longer is there, Buckley saidyesterday, is Bicksler. The facility has agreed to train staff in how to handleseizures.Comprehensive Care has until March to address its deficiencies or lose Medicaidfunding.The Kennedy Institute's problems were at a Northwest home where a nurse failedto administer medication properly and staff failed to monitor clients' progressat a day program they attended.Institute Vice President Rebecca Salon said the home's deficiencies have beenaddressed and stressed that a large number of the federal findings pertained toa day program over which the institute has no control.A program director for D.C. Health Care, Gracy Stephen, said regulatorsroutinely identify problems and facilities correct them. "Incidents do happen,"she said. "That does not mean the facility is not being operated properly."Reports of at least 116 uninvestigated deaths and serious problems in city carefor the mentally retarded ultimately prompted the mayor to fire six officialsand suspend two others in the Department of Human Services.In late December, the city agreed to address some of the specific complaintsraised by the Justice Department reports, some dating from June. But that cameonly after Justice officials strongly criticized the city. The city's "failureto implement adequate corrective actions is unacceptable," Justice attorneyRichard J. Ferano wrote in a letter accompanying a Dec. 10 report.The Justice reports were sealed under court order after District officialsargued that their release would jeopardize the privacy of the mentally retardedpeople. The reports were obtained recently by The Washington Post.Over the course of six months, the Justice Department identified seriousproblems, using pseudonyms to protect city wards. In one case, the victim of asexual assault remains in the same home as his assailant, despite pleas from thefederal government and others that they be separated. Justice also mentioned"Angela," who had been without a working wheelchair for more than three years."Clarissa" wasn't receiving adequate food, investigators warned.Experts hired by the Justice Department reported that the city could not answerbasic questions about deaths of many mentally retarded wards and that by failingto explore the causes, the city placed others at risk.Among the specific cases Justice cited was that of William Moxley, a profoundlyretarded 34-year-old.Moxley's problems, raised by federal investigators in reports to the city inJune, came up again in more detail in August. The report said the Thorazine hewas taking had reached toxic levels. In December, investigators warned that thecity had failed to respond as Moxley's situation "deteriorated into a crisis."The Justice Department recommended Moxley receive a detailed, independentmedical evaluation and be moved out of the group home to avoid injuring others.But four days after that warning, Moxley was dead.The D.C. medical examiner's office has not released autopsy results, butMoxley's father, William Moxley Sr., said doctors at Walter Reed Hospital toldhim his son had likely choked on his vomit. He was in bed at his group home,which is run by DC ARC, the father said doctors told him.Shirley Wade, executive director of DC ARC, said she had requested fundingauthority from the city's Medicaid office to provide one-on-one staffing forMoxley but got no response. The home decided to provide that level of staffinganyway, she said.Staff writers Lena H. Sun and Katherine Boo contributed to this report.To read complete Post coverage of group homes, go to www.washingtonpost.com/invisible.