In one of the most remarkable hoodwinkings in this city's sad history as acongressional plaything, the federal government is about to impose schoolvouchers on a city that would never adopt such a program on its own.Vouchers won in the House on Tuesday night by one vote, a painful reminder ofthe vote the District lacks. In the Senate, the key support for saddling theDistrict with the shame of public funding of religious education came last weekfrom Sen. Dianne Feinstein of California, who endorsed vouchers here but notedthat she would never do any such thing back home, where Americans enjoy votingrights.You would think that a politician who inflicts an offensive policy on a populacethat never elected her to anything might at least be open to discussion. Youwould be wrong.Feinstein's Web site offers a chance to contact the senator with "comments andconcerns." When District resident John Whiteside expressed outrage about herposition on vouchers, he got an automated reply from Feinstein informing himthat "we are only able to respond to messages that contain a California postaladdress."When I e-mailed Feinstein, I got the same reply."We receive from California alone more than 35,000 pieces of mail and e-mail aweek," spokesman Howard Gantman said when I called seeking an explanation. "TheWeb site is set up to respond to her constituents. There is some concern aboutopening it up to the entire world."But the senator isn't mucking around in the lives of the entire world -- onlythis city, which has zero say in Congress's little experiments with us.A few hours later, Gantman called back to say, "After your inquiry came in, thesenator said she hadn't been aware of the restrictions on responding just toCalifornia residents. She's directed the staff to try to expand our e-mailresponse program." (Gantman says Feinstein has received more than 600 calls fromDistrict residents, "a large preponderance of them opposed to vouchers.")Vouchers promise a few hundred families a way out of public schools. But theDistrict already has a path out of its failed schools -- the charter schoolsystem offers alternatives that are free, open to all comers and accountable tothe taxpayers, without entangling government in constitutionally suspectsectarian schooling.Why aren't charters, which struggle to find decent facilities, getting thisextra money? Charters are real school choice, but the zealots behind vouchersdon't really care about better education. Their aim is to knock down the wallbetween church and state, to build a pipeline of dollars from your pocket toreligious schools.The vouchers funded by this new program would provide up to $ 7,500 each for1,300 children. That wouldn't come close to the $ 22,000 some politicians spendto send their children to elite schools. It would, however, cover the cost ofCatholic school.A Bush administration survey finds 38 private schools in the city that charge $7,500 or less per year. There are 33 Catholic schools in the District. So weknow what this is all about.What we have here is a charity program in which the American taxpayer hands overmillions of dollars to the same wealthy institution that has hundreds ofmillions to pay to victims of sexual abuse by wayward clergymen.Proponents of vouchers are right to cry foul when teachers unions fight againstoptions for kids stuck in corrupt, failed schools. No one should be required toattend a school that worsens a child's chances of success.But vouchers aren't the answer. There are other options: This city is fortunateto have several generous private scholarship funds that augment private schools'financial aid programs. Catholic schools offer an excellent education andgenerous aid to thousands of poor District children, many of whom are notCatholic. And though charter schools vary in quality, the better ones are astrong alternative.But the city's future rests on the attention paid to those public schools.Parents who seek vouchers are those who know what they want for their kids andhave the savvy to go get it. But who will lobby for the silent victims, thechildren of dysfunctional, uninvolved parents? Vouchers -- a false hope, a wrongturn -- do squat for them.Join me at noon todayfor "Potomac Confidential atwww.washingtonpost.com/liveonline.