Dear Carolyn:Hi. I'm a 17-year-old male. A month or two ago, I became attracted to one of mybest girl friends and asked her out. She said no because she "didn't want thefriendship to change." This was right before winter vacation. I decided to giveher the week and a half we had off from school to chill and let things return tonormal. However, when we returned, she stopped speaking to me, period. I stillwant her as a friend because I enjoy her company even without the feelings Ionce had, but she's turning this into a contest to see who can make the otherperson more miserable. Help!! (Please!)-- Dismissed in D.C.Go right up to her and say, "We apparently don't have any friendship left toruin, so now will you go out with me?"This isn't a strangely intelligible series of typos: I am, in fact, suggestingyou make a complete (and utter!) fool of yourself. Go arms out, over the top,and don't even pretend you're serious; you're cool, you know a flat-out,write-it-in-neon rejection when you see it, right? You just want her to talk toyou again, and this kind of desperate, self-deprecatory flailing, when done withpanache, is guaranteed to break the ice. Why? It shows you can be brave aboutthis if she can.Unless -- and given the sad state of American sensibilities, this is a strongpossibility -- she has no sense of humor. If the best she can give you is ablank stare, save your frog act for a more worthy princess.Hi Carolyn:My fiance's father is a convicted child molester, yet my fiance still plans oninviting him to our wedding. I understand his father will always be his father.Because of this we would like no children at our wedding. However, my cousinshave ignored such requests in the past. I do not want to embarrass my fiance bytelling them about his father. Should we just turn them away if they show upwith their children (much family heartache) or should I confide in a third partyto watch over him?-- BrideHeavens. I'll assume you've addressed the larger issues of marrying the son of avery sick man. I'll also hope this man is in treatment.If I had kids and had let them run minimally supervised at a family event where,unbeknown to me, a convicted child molester was present, and if somethingterrible had happened or if I had otherwise found out there was a convictedchild molester present, and if I had then learned that you had known all along,I would kill you. So I'd scrap the plan to "baby-sit" pedo-dad.Someone simply has to put her foot down with the (rude, by the way) cousins whohave a history of disobeying the no-kids order. Either you or one of yourparents should call any relatives with kids, one by one, and say it breaks yourhearts to have to ask this, but they MUST leave the kids home. In politesociety, no further explanation is necessary.Then again, in polite society, people don't ignore the explicit requests ofbrides and grooms, either. So when they corner you, treat them exactly as rudesociety deserves to be treated: Lie. Sort of. Say it was a mutual decision madeby bride, groom and both families not to include children, and anyagreement-breaking by one family would be offensive and unfair to those who weregood enough to cooperate and leave the kids home. (This is actually a greattruth about good manners; the lie is merely one of omission.)Even then, have a paid (and informed) babysitter on call to watch, in a separateroom, any kids who turn up anyway.Or go to Plan B: A tiny, immediate-family-only service. If that soundsdepressing, have it somewhere chichi, or postcard-beautiful, or deeply personal,or overseas. With a one-table guest list, no tents, no caterers and no wanker ona microphone announcing wowee wow, it's the couple's first dance!!! you canafford what might otherwise have been a prohibitive extravagance. Then have a"kids-only" party later for cousins, peers, anyone who missed the wedding itselfand has never groped a child. Frankly, even for families fortunate enough to bepedophile-free, Plan B sounds a lot more fun.Dear Carolyn:Regarding the hot-pink bug-crushers, a k a The One: You said "Translation intoGuyspeak available upon request." Okay, I'm asking.-- JMW(In case you're lost, I recently discussed The One in terms of shoe-shopping.(Which moved not just JMW but several guys to feign ignorance, because, let'sface it -- when your masculinity is already a bit on the fragile side, you admityou understand a shoe-shopping metaphor and you might as well put on a tutu andsing "I Feel Pretty" at the Super Bowl.)Ready, big guys?Say your distinguished little bald spot is now Big Bald National Park, and youneed to buy a hat. You guy, you want ball cap. But then, suddenly, your eyeslight on one swanky piece of felt, and you spend five times as much as you'dplanned for the privilege of walking out of that hat shop as the next IndianaJones. Your heart is full, your gait is strong -- and just think, if you'd beenhellbent on getting just a cap, you might never have found your swagger. Such isthe risk when you set strict requirements for "the one."If it all makes sense now, grunt twice.Write to Tell Me About It, Style Plus, 1150 15th St. NW, Washington, D.C. 20071or tellme@washpost.com, and chat with Carolyn live online at noon today on ThePost's Web site, http://www.washingtonpost.com