Republican presidential hopeful Herman Cain faced a new set of politicalchallenges Monday after graphic allegations by a Chicago woman raised questionsamong GOP operatives and activists about the candidate's ability to survive thegrowing scandal.After eight days of accusations and denials of alleged sexual harassment byCain, the specific and explicit nature of the new allegations could threaten hisposition among a core group of supporters who have stood by him, or at leaststayed silent."This is the first time that the allegations have been about physical ratherthan verbal harassment. These are much more serious charges that require Cain toprovide a more specific explanation than a blanket denial," said Daniel Schnur,who advised Sen. John McCain's 2000 presidential campaign but is uncommitted inthe 2012 contest.Mississippi Gov. Haley Barbour told the conservative magazine National Review onMonday: "If there is any substance to the claims, if the American people believethat somebody abused women, they are not going to elect him or her president. Ifthis were taken as being true, and people believe it's true, then I don't thinkthat can be overcome."The initial allegations against Cain - dating to the 1990s, when he was chiefexecutive of the National Restaurant Association - were general and unspecific,and Cain denied them.Sharon Bialek changed that Monday with a nationally televised news conference inwhich she accused Cain of groping her and trying to force her into a sexual act.Cain's campaign issued another denial but did not respond directly to Bialek'sclaims: "All allegations of harassment against Mr. Cain are completely false,"said J.D. Gordon, a Cain spokesman. "Mr. Cain has never harassed anyone." Gordoncharacterized Bialek's charges as "bogus attacks," but they seem to be alteringthe political calculus for the candidate."This changes the dynamic of the situation," said Craig Robinson, a longtimeRepublican operative in Iowa who runs a political blog there. "Last week, thedefenders of Herman were saying these are all anonymous people. Now we have awoman who has come forward in pretty plain language about what went on. He can'tjust blame the media on this one."As the news of sexual harassment charges filed against Cain in the 1990s emergedlast week, many conservatives blasted the accusations as anonymous snipingagainst a leading Republican contender and blamed the "liberal media."But Bialek's comments will almost certainly force the former Godfather's Pizzachief executive to offer his own version of his interactions with the woman,Republicans say. And the continuing focus on alleged sexual harassment in hispast could push conservative voters who galvanized behind Cain to defect. Thatcould significantly reorder the already topsy-turvy GOP race that has beendefined by sudden surges by different candidates in opinion polls, followed byequally sudden collapses or setbacks.Although the earlier allegations did not seem to faze some of Cain's supporters,Bialek's accusations seem to raise doubts among some.Robert Haugen, who runs an investment research firm in Colorado and has donated$1,000 to Cain's campaign this year, said in an interview after Monday's newsconference that the sexual harassment allegations make him "a little lesssupportive" of Cain."I suspect he's being dishonest, and I don't want that in a president," Haugensaid. "The dishonesty bothers me more than the sexual aggressiveness."But other Cain backers are sticking with the candidate."I don't trust any of it," said Fred Backer Jr., 71, a retired correctionalofficer in Mount Morris, N.Y., who has donated more than $1,000 to Cain'scampaign. "The man's been in business for 40-some years without a blemish. He'shad to work with people both male and female all that time. It's so out ofcharacter for him, it's unbelievable."Backer, who watched Bialek's news conference, added, "He's my man. "I've beengiving him $150 a month out of my Social Security every month since May, and I'mgoing to keep doing that until he's not running."And antiestablishment conservative activists, who defended Cain last week, wereskeptical of Bialek's allegations."She was not employed by the restaurant association when this happened. Thereare no witnesses. She told nobody at the time that it happened, and he isdenying it," conservative talk radio host Rush Limbaugh said on his show Monday.Bialek's news conference came just as the furor was dying down over the news,first reported by Politico, that the National Restaurant Association had settleda sexual harassment claim against Cain in the 1990s when he led the association.A Washington Post-ABC News poll released Friday showed that Cain has survivedthe controversy politically; the surveyhttp://www.washingtonpost.com/politics/cain-rises-in-post-abc-poll-despite-scandal-most-republicans-dismiss-allegations/2011/11/04/gIQApcgSlM_story.htmlhttp://www.washingtonpost.com/politics/cain-rises-in-post-abc-poll-despite-scandal-most-republicans-dismiss-allegations/2011/11/04/gIQApcgSlM_story.html showed him effectively tied for thelead in the GOP nominating race with former Massachusetts governor Mitt Romney.Cain's rivals have done little to highlight the sexual harassment issue, andneither Romney nor Rep. Michele Bachmann (Minn.) mentioned it in speeches onMonday.But Bialek's comments are likely to cause even more criticism from moreestablishment figures in the party who were already wary of Cain, whom manyRepublicans view as a weak candidate to face President Obama next year.What's not clear is whether many Republican voters will abandon Cain. Hisstrength in the polls over the past month has remained despite not only thesexual harassment charges but also rivals' attacks of his "9-9-9" tax plan. AnNBC News-Wall Street Journal poll conducted before Bialek's news conferencefound that a majority of Republicans were not concerned about the sexualharassment allegations.Much of Cain's support comes from the antiestablishment tea party wing of theGOP, which has been resistant to Romney but abandoned Bachmann and Texas Gov.Rick Perry after galvanizing behind both earlier in the race. If the sexualharassment allegations result in a significant loss of support for Cain, thatcould reshape the Republican race, perhaps offering a second chance for Bachmannor Perry or elevating another candidate, such as former House speaker NewtGingrich (Ga.).Republicans say what happens to Cain's campaign will largely rest on thecandidate himself and whether Republicans trust his denials of the multipleallegations of improper sexual behavior."The thing is how much is true," said Steve Scheffler, a longtime conservativeactivist in Iowa. "We have to see the real facts."baconp@washpost.comeggend@washpost.com