The arrest of the alleged East Coast Rapistbrought relief to victims Saturday aspolice announced formal charges against the Connecticut man taken into custodylate last week.Law enforcement officials say DNA from a discarded cigarette butt has linkedAaron H. Thomas, 39, to a series of rapes and other attacks on women spanning 13years and four states, including Maryland and Virginia.Authorities announced Saturday that Thomas has been charged with sex assault,burglary and risk of injury to a minor in connection with a January 2007 attackon a New Haven, Conn., woman that occurred in her apartment as her infant sonslept in a crib nearby.Thomas, who is being held on a $1 million bond, also is charged with two countsof rape, abduction and a firearm count in connection with a Halloween 2009attack of three teenage girls in Prince William County, law enforcementofficials said.A law enforcement source familiar with the investigation said on Saturday thatThomas had been "very cooperative" and talked with detectives from Maryland andVirginia who traveled to New Haven on Friday.At some point, however, he attempted suicide by hanging,  said Officer JoeAvery, a New Haven police spokesman. Avery said Thomas was sent to a hospitalfor observation after the incident, then returned to the facility where he wasbeing held.At a news conference Saturday, New Haven police Lt. Julie Johnson said that"although the information and investigation of Thomas developed quickly over thelast week or so . . . investigators worked tirelessly for years pursuing thiscase." Johnson said she hoped the arrest "brings some closure to our victims."A Cranston, R.I., woman whose daughter saw the rapist poke his head through thepartially open sliding glass door of their deck  in November 2006, said she wasrelieved. Her daughter's screams chased the man but she had wondered where hewas and whether he would return."You never knew," she said. "Now he's not able to rape or assault anyone else."The breakthrough came last week, when police got a tip from an acquaintance ofthe suspect. Police had sponsored a media blitz, http://www.washingtonpost.com/wp-dyn/content/article/2011/02/27/AR2011022702919.htmlwith composite sketchesof the attacker on digital billboards along the East Coast and a Web site onthe case.Thomas was on a short list of suspects culled from hundreds. Police tracked himdown at an unrelated court appearance Thursday in New Haven, where theyrecovered the cigarette butt.Messages left Saturday at phone numbers listed for his relatives were notreturned. Thomas attended a Prince George's County high school and often visitedhis mother in Clarke County, Va., according to law enforcement officials.Police have long said the person responsible for the rapes likely lived orworked near where they occurred. Thomas's address history places him close toalmost all of the rapes linked by DNA.In the late 1990s, four Prince George's attacks took place within five miles ofhis District Heights home. One was as close as a mile.An address listed for Thomas in the Alexandria section of Fairfax County, wherethe rapes in 1999 occurred, was within four miles of three attacks along Route1. It was  three-quarters of a mile from a 2001 rape on Rolling Hills Avenue. Anaddress listed for him in Prince William was  two miles from the Halloween 2009rape of two teenagers; his current address in New Haven is seven miles from therape there.glodm@washpost.commarimowa@washpost.comStaff writers Martin Weil and Josh White contributed to this report.