Joe Paterno could outtalk anybody in that Brooklyn beat cop's voice of his. Butthe lung cancer and the chemo had left him breathless, and what emerged in twodays of conversations with him, the last interview he would give, sounded like aseries of sighs. Some of them satisfied, some of them regretful, all of themaware that his life was drawing to a close and 85 years were being relentlesslyand reductively defined. ¶ Paterno studied his own end, and knew it wasn'tgoing to be storybook. So much for the old-fashioned narrative he had built, ofbookish yet vigorous young men filling a stadium in the Alleghenies, men he haduplifted such as Franco Harris and Lydell Mitchell and Brandon Short, autumnleaves swirling softly over their heads. ¶ "There's the kind of stories I wishwe could tell," Paterno whispered. ¶ But a modern grotesquery intervened, andthere were too many other boys who allegedly had been damaged.For most of his 61 years as a football coach at Penn State, Paterno built arecord of thorough decency and good intention. He loved his wife, reared fivenice children, taught his students well. He turned down big money for the roleof a tenured professor, and strolled every day from his modest home to hisunpretentious office. He acquired real power, and generally tried not to abuseit, and if sometimes he did, he covered for it by insisting on paying for hisice cream cones. He set out to prove that staying in one place could be asrewarding as climbing to the next rung. He meant to walk away sooner. He stayedtoo long.He stayed so long that he became more of an ideal to his followers than aperson. Then the horrific happened, and the quaint success story in the peacefulhamlet was destroyed by allegations that Jerry Sandusky, Paterno's assistantcoach for 30 years, was a serial child molester and that Paterno, when told ofan incident involving Sandusky and a small boy in the Penn State showers, didhis duty but no more, passing the report to his superiors. The only way to givethe tragedy the gravity it deserved was to topple the icon who behaved sofallibly."You got what you got," he says he told himself, after he was fired by the boardof trustees in November. "You did about as much as you can do, on the field andoff the field."Yet Paterno also understood he was the face of a terrible inaction. He had donemore than some people, yet less than he should have when he failed to press hissuperiors about Mike McQueary's report of seeing Sandusky doing something sexualto a small boy in the Lasch football building."I should have said 'Hey where are we with this thing?' " Paterno said. Hedescribed himself as paralyzed by the unthinkable subject matter. He had "backedaway," he said, and trusted his bosses to handle it."I didn't know which way to go," he said. "And rather than get in there and makea mistake . . ."A week ago, Paterno invited this reporter into his home because he wanted todefend his record and give his version of events in the Sandusky case. He oftenseemed to be trying to explain his actions to himself as much as to others. Itwas a difficult conversation because it was not only his first interview on thesubject of Sandusky but quite possibly the last interview he would ever give.His health was clearly precarious, and his answers often trailed off orwandered. Shortly afterward, he failed badly, and slipped in and out ofconsciousness over the next few days.The enraged who demand hard answers as to why Paterno didn't do more will haveto wait until eternity. Why didn't he follow up? "I don't know," he said.You will have to decide for yourself if Paterno could have reached the age of 85in modern society without ever really knowing what man-boy sodomy was. "I hadnever heard of, of, rape and a man," he said.For what it's worth, there was genuine distress in his voice when he said it.And it's hard to overstate just how insulated Paterno was. His home was a timewarp, all old wood and creaking floorboards. But he most likely overstated hisignorance. He did, after all, belong to a Catholic Church wracked by pedophiliascandals.Still, I thought I understood what he meant. He seemed to reflexively recoilfrom such deviancy; it baffled him, and to connect it to a longtime colleaguewas almost impossible."It was shocking for me, and too, sadness," Paterno said. "Was he sick? I don'tknow. I don't even know if he's guilty."It would be a mistake to think that Paterno didn't care enough about thepotential victims. "I'm sick about it. I think about a 12-year-old boy, a10-year old boy. In the shower, a physical touching, it's sickening."According to Paterno's wife Sue, the two of them spent agonized hours talkingabout whether, if Sandusky is guilty, they should have noticed something.If nothing else, Paterno said, maybe the Sandusky scandal would help drag thesubject out of its dark corner. It was one of the last sentiments he expressed.On the final morning he would ever spend at home, he sat propped in bed andinsisted on answering a few more questions - that's how important it was to himto talk. In just a few hours he would be taken to the hospital, and remain thereuntil he died Sunday morning."I'm happy in one sense that we called attention, throughout this state, andthroughout the country probably, that this is going on," he said. "It's kind ofbeen like a hidden thing. So maybe that's good."According to a family spokesperson, it was among his last lucid remarks toanyone outside of his immediate family.Paterno's critics will say his inaction in the Sandusky case ruined his legacyand that he had the power to do more. But Paterno denied he was the ultimatemoral authority in Happy Valley. He had always tried to refrain from flexing hismuscle, he insisted. "In all the years I'm here, we went the way the universitywanted," he said.One reason I suspect Paterno decided to talk with me, as opposed to anotherwriter, was because it brought his career full circle. In 1968 a SportsIllustrated writer named Dan Jenkins went to State College to do _blanka storyon a rising coach who had turned a cow college into a national football power,yet who emphasized academics like an Ivy Leaguer. No fewer than five times,Paterno asked, "How's your father?" I replied that my father is 82 and stilltyping, and didn't like the idea of retirement either.Back in 1968, Paterno told my father, "We're trying to win football games; don'tmisunderstand that. But I don't want it to ruin our lives if we lose. I don'twant us ever to become the kind of place where an 8-2 season is a tragedy. Lookat that day outside. It's clear, it's beautiful, the leaves are turning, theland is pretty, and it's quiet. If losing a game made me miserable, I couldn'tenjoy such a day."Had that perspective gotten lost? Did Paterno feel that somewhere along theline, football had become too important - and somehow allowed a real tragedy togo overlooked?"Well, I don't think it got lost," he said. "I just think there was a series ofsituations that maybe people, a little bit, maybe they neglected something, andmaybe they got a little bit frustrated. Whether they had good intentions or not,you'd have to ask them."His record will show that he was a great, indomitable champion who amassed arecord 409 victories, as well as an intelligent advocate who worked tirelesslyfor poor and minority athletes his whole career. It will show that he wasutterly devoted to his players, regularly graduated more than 75 percent ofthem, and had 47 academic all-Americans. It will show that he made mistakes andomissions, one of them possibly truly costly. It will show that he mostlymaintained his perspective and remained true to himself."He didn't preach one thing and live a different way," Sue said.It will show that he was not a statue made of bronze, and that he was defined asmuch by what he failed to do and say, as by what he did. Which merely made him,in the end, human.jenkinss@washpost.comFor Sally Jenkins's previous columns, go to washingtonpost.com/jenkinsMore from Washington Post SportsAudio excerpts from Paterno's last interviewSocial media sparks firestorm of false reportsLast week: Joe Paterno speaks to Sally JenkinsPaterno speaks: Complete coverageVideo: Paterno: 'We've got a problem, I think'Photos: Penn State trustees fire PaternoGraphic: Inside the Penn State scandalQ&A transcript: Sally Jenkins