The bars near the University of Virginia were packed on graduation day, seniorsin billowing black gowns drinking away their final few hours before entering thereal world. Itwas 7 a.m. ¶ Waiters and bartenders, many of whom had workeduntil the Saturday night shift ended a few hours earlier, shuttled pitchers ofBloody Marys, mimosas and manmosas (beer, vodka and orange juice) and pouredround after round of shots: cinnamon fireballs, Southern Comfort with lime, andstraighttequila. ¶ "Sweet Caroline" blared as sorority sisters in flip-flops danced andsipped mixed drinks at the Virginian.At the Biltmore, the bouncer waved in anyone wearing commencement garb. ThePigeon Hole put out a chalkboard  sign that originally read "Graduate in style!"but someonehad crossed out "in style" and written "under the influence!"At Trinity Irish Pub, students crammed onto a balcony that provided the perfectspot to look for friends and snap photos. Below, dozens more gathered on apatio, drinking on who-knows-whose bill."Our tab is already $400!" one student excitedly announced from atop a blackmetal chair at about 8:20 a.m., with another solid hour left before they weredue at the ceremony. One of his friends  smirked: "It's not $500 yet?"A 21-year-old double-major wearing a wrinkled blue button-down under his blackgown defended this scene as he drank a mimosa from a plastic cup. Soon his otherhand was filled with a cheap shot of vodka, bringing him to at least half adozen drinks in less than two hours - not that he was counting."All of us have jobs. All of us have real majors. None of us got majors likepsychology," he said. "This is out of character, even for us. We are getting itout of our systems now, and then we will go into the real world."But, would his parents approve of him stumbling through this symbolic day?"I told my parents what I was doing, and they were like, 'YOLO,' " he said witha laugh. He paused before seriously requesting that his name and identifyingcharacteristics not appear in any article a future employer might read."YOLO" - you only live once - is often uttered by college students as they shrugand do something they normally wouldn't do, such as drinking until they blackout, experimenting with drugs or trying a new sexual experience.This fall's freshmen likely will find that the higher education tradition ofexcessive alcohol consumption is alive and well, but there are new variables:Energy drink mixers keep students awake and drinking longer. A historically highnumber of students legally take prescribed antidepressants and other psychiatricdrugs, which can be dangerous when mixed with booze.Today's college students, who were mostly born in the early 1990s, havecellphone cameras and social media accounts that allow for the sharing of everyembarrassing turn of a disastrous night. That can lead to a painful tarnishingof reputations or the celebration of reckless behavior. And news of the latestdrinking trends spreads quickly on the Web. Those trends have coloredperceptions of college students, but are they that much wilder than theirparents were?The scholarly standard for "too much" was long ago set at five drinks or more atleast once in a two-week period. For three decades, that national binge drinkingrate has hovered around 40 percent.But college officials - the ones tasked with making sure students don't hurtthemselves or others - aren't necessarily worried about the bulk of thosestudents. They are concerned about the students who go out every night of theweek or have dozens of drinks each month, those who occasionally drink heavily,but with a lower tolerance. They worry about the black-out drunks. The violentdrunks. Those who turn to alcohol and drugs instead of seeking counseling.Alcohol is a common theme in nearly all student problems, including falteringgrades, fights, injuries, suicide attempts, mental-health issues and sexualassaults. A serious drinking problem could go undiagnosed for years in anenvironment where heavy drinking is considered the norm. These students face amore difficult path to graduation, as they are more likely to skip class, get introuble or not study. And if they do graduate, the transition to a working worldwith set hours can be difficult."A lot of students do grow out of it," said Susan Bruce, director of the U-Va.Center for Alcohol and Substance Education, "but there's really no way topredict which ones will and which ones won't."U-Va. has tracked student drinking rates since the 1960s. The heaviest drinkingwas back in the 1970s and '80s, when parents of today's students would have beenenrolled, Bruce said. The rate is now in line with national averages.U-Va. has seen subtle growth at the two poles: students who don't or hardlydrink, and those who are extreme drinkers. This trend is playing out at otheruniversities, prompting a shift in educational messaging.Colleges have been under pressure to keep students safe since the early 1980s,when the national drinking age was increased to 21, making it illegal for halfof the undergraduate population to drink. Many schools shut down campus pubs andforbid alcohol in dorms and sorority and fraternity houses.Lawsuits and deaths pushed some schools to crack down. Students are nowroutinely patrolled, busted and punished by local police, campus police, "partypatrol" crews that roam student neighborhoods, school judicial boards and evenparents, who at a growing number of schools are now contacted when their childhas any alcohol infraction. As a result, parties moved off campus.In 2008, 130 college presidents voiced support for the Amethyst Initiative,which stated that a legal drinking age of 21 has created "a culture ofdangerous, clandestine 'binge-drinking' - often conducted off-campus."In recent years, some administrators have adopted this attitude: If students aregoing to drink, let them do it safely. More schools have amnesty policies forstudents who seek help for a friend who might have alcohol poisoning. Someschools have reopened campus pubs, serve wine in the dining halls or allowover-21 students to drink in on-campus apartments.At U-Va., it has been difficult for several waves of administrators to chip awayat drinking traditions. At the annual Foxfield horse races, students startdrinking in the morning and go all day. At the historic Lawn, students getbombed, strip and streak naked. And there's the "fourth-year fifth," when somefourth-year students try to finish a fifth before kickoff at the final homefootball game. In 1997, a senior honors student died after drinking heavily andfalling down stairs."This is a very dangerous decision," U-Va. President Teresa Sullivan wrote in aletter to students. "A fifth of 80-proof liquor (17 drinks) can kill you."U-Va. alcohol educators have suggested ways to make the tradition safer, such assplitting a bottle between friends, subbing in wine or spreading the drinkingacross a weekend. But the tradition continues.It doesn't help that U-Va. is frequently named one of the top party schools inthe nation. Incoming students arrive with the notion that everyone drinksheavily, and some older students feel a responsibility to keep the reputationgoing.At a formal awards ceremony during graduation weekend, a top senior leader gavethis shout-out: "Thank you, Forbes, ABC, Buzzfeed, Playboy and the otherpublications that spotlighted our school's achievements in your rankings." Hewas interrupted by laughter and applause, then continued: "You reassured us thatwe're the best school in the world."The cozy first floor of the modular  house was jammed with undergraduates, atleast 100 at any one time, dramatically upping the indoor temperature from thecrisp night outside, where a dozen smokers chose to hang out. The couch wascovered with coats and sweatshirts. Pop and house music blared.A feisty young woman guarded the door and interrogated every person who tried toenter. She let in close friends, sorta-friends, fellow seniors and youngerstudents who were in a religious retreat group one of her roommates led."We decided to go big," explained another one of the hostesses, wearing a blackspaghetti-strap top with her cellphone tucked into her cleavage.In one corner, seniors sipped Natty Light and talked about what they wanted todo before graduation. A couple of women tried to get everyone dancing. One guyalternated swigs of orange soda and vodka. A communal bottle of Wild Turkey madeits way through the horde.Most of the crowd was "binge drinking, " but mostly on light beer and overhours. They would go to sleep - not pass out - get up the next morning and goabout working and studying. But a couple of guys appeared bombed, including astumbling senior who gave a lengthy interview to a reporter, then e-mailed thenext afternoon. "I was speaking with you last night, and I have no recollectionof it whatsoever," he wrote.One woman didn't drink at all. She never does, as alcohol has hurt her family.This party could be on any campus. On that Friday night in April, it was atBoston College, a Jesuit school that allows of-age seniors to host parties onFriday and Saturday nights in their on-campus modular houses  (known as "TheMods"), which went up in the '70s as temporary housing for baby boomers.The seniors must register parties and create a plan for what kind of alcoholthey will serve, along with nonalcoholic beverages and food. Hosts must agreenot to serve underage students, but younger students often sneak in, severalstudents said. And it's not as if the dorms are lacking alcohol, despite strictrules against it.Like many schools, Boston College has upped the alcohol education it offersstudents, along with limiting access to alcohol, focusing attention on students'making healthy decisions, offering alcohol-free events and packing students'schedules."If they're under 21, it's always a risky choice to make, because there areconsequences. But if that's a choice they are going to make, we want to givethem some tools for doing it safely," said Robyn Priest, associate director ofBC's office of health promotion.Even if students find alcohol ed tedious or boring, the message usually sticks.And those messages are reiterated over time.Outside the Mods that Friday night, Chestnut Hill swarmed with studentssearching for alcohol or stumbling home from having had too much. Cabs hoverednear the entrance. The sound of women shouting "woooooo!" floated from an opendorm window.A pack of guys poured out of one of the sophomore halls. One was franticallytexting, as his friend impatiently asked: "Do you know of a party?" Anotherclarified: "Do you know of even a hint of a party?"Inside Mod 15A, the party continued."See how it's really hot and super crowded? That's a Mod party," said a seniorin jeans and a T-shirt. And this crowd is nothing, he explained, yelling andcracking open a beer. The previous weekend another group of women hosted a partyin their Mod that attracted so many people, who danced so hard, that the floorsagged and needed repair.These students said they don't think their drinking is any heavier or lighterthan that at other colleges. Students drink - sometimes too much - but it's nota big deal, they said."It's work hard, play hard," said a 22-year-old senior. "I've had marathon weekswith seven nights straight, and I've had weeks where I drink one night."Just after 1 a.m., the music cut out. "Sorry, guys," one of the hosts yelled,"party is over."Some students chug the rest of their drinks; others take them for the walk home.There's a debate over whether they could get to the local dive bar before lastcall. Many students make their way - some swaying, arms around each other - to adining hall that serves greasy late-night food, a service schools have begun tooffer to get sustenance in the stomachs of imbibing students.The students who threw the party begin picking up beer cans, putting furnitureback into place - and de-tagging unflattering photos on Facebook.Within 30 minutes of new-student orientation kicking off at Frostburg StateUniversity on a Sunday morning in June, the school's top leader had themicrophone and was talking about alcohol. He warned the group sitting before him- mostly 18-year-olds with their parents - not to get caught up in the "collegeeffect," the idea presented in movies and on sitcoms that going to college meansdrinking."Beyond the tragedies, what concerns me most is the loss of human potential,"said President Jonathan C. Gibralter, who has led the public university inWestern Maryland since 2006. He paused before continuing: "Please think aboutthat this summer. Don't let yourselves get caught up in that world of excessive,high-risk drinking and change the story of what is possible for you at FrostburgState University."Frostburg used to be a major party school, a reputation coupled with tragedy.  Afreshman died of alcohol poisoning in 1996 after drinking at an unaffiliatedfraternity's party. Seven students were charged. Early in Gibralter'spresidency, a student punched a neighbor outside a frat party, nearly killingthe man. And over the years, several students have been hospitalized afterdrinking too much.Gibralter is convinced that administrators can change the drinking culture - andthat they must. "There's this impression that there's nothing you can do aboutit, and that's just wrong," he said.Gibralter wants to change the "college effect." In high school, college-boundstudents are less likely to drink than students who don't plan to continue theireducation. But during freshman year, students who already drink start to drinkmore, and students who never drank are likely to start. The drinking rates ofthose people in college are much higher than those not enrolled.Gibralter's wife is an alcohol educator, and he has been closely involved withnational initiatives, including one recently launched by Dartmouth College thattreats college drinking as a public health epidemic.Gibralter has made reducing high-risk drinking a priority at Frostburg. He'sconfident the university is making strides, as the percentage of students whobinge-drink fell from 54 percent in 2006 to 41 percent last year. With thatcomes academic achievements: a slowly increasing retention rate, incomingstudents with higher academic credentials and fewer discipline problems.Frostburg has worked to create an environment where there are many more thingsto do than drink. The business school now offers a full slate of Friday classesto discourage Thursday-night drinking. And the university often hostsalcohol-free dance parties that attract hundreds.The university gave money to the local police force for an extra officer topatrol student neighborhoods on popular party nights. Once a month, Frostburgofficials meet with police and representatives from bars and liquor stores. Theschool will pay for employee training and have students design the bars' menusin exchange for closely following the law, limiting drink specials and promotinghealthy drinking habits.All incoming students are required to pass an online class that teaches thatmost college students don't drink like characters in the movies. Officials urgeparents to talk with their children about drinking before move-in day. Thateducation continues into the fall and is often led by students. Student leaders,including those of fraternities and sororities, are required to receive the sametraining bartenders receive so they can spot problems at parties.Frostburg maintains zero tolerance for underage drinking. A first offenseresults in more alcohol education and a letter to parents, which schoolofficials say has lessened the number of further, more serious offenses.During orientation, dean of students Jesse M. Ketterman Jr. sternly warned: "Wedeal with behavior on and off campus. It doesn't matter if you do it on campusor off; we will find out about it."But, sure enough, during every orientation, at least a few incoming freshmen askolder students to buy them beer or recommend parties."The people who ask about alcohol at [orientation] aren't going to be here in ayear," said Andy Krehbiel, a rising senior and fraternity member who works inthe student center.The cultural changes have not been easy or popular, Gibralter said. Even so,there are still tragedies, including one student fatally stabbed by another atan off-campus party in 2011."We're only as good as our last weekend," Gibralter said. "I never go to bed atnight thinking: 'Thank goodness. We finally solved this problem.' "The video starts with the sound of    a marching band and quickly cuts to twosupposed University of Michigan undergrads standing on a balcony in Ann Arbor insunglasses."Hey, guys, I'm Liza," says the young woman wearing jeans shorts and a MichiganT-shirt, cropped to show her toned abs. A guy in a black tank top and backwardcap next to her introduces himself as Justin."Welcome to Welcome Week 2012," she says."We're going to show you how we work hard," Justin explains."And play harder," Liza says.As Wiz Khalifa's song "Work Hard, Play Hard" pulses, the screen fills withphotos that look as if they belong in an admissions brochure: the Michiganstadium, the bell tower, ivy-covered buildings and a banner exclaiming, "Welcometo Michigan!!"The refrain hits - Work! Work! Work! Work! - and the screen turns into a montageof party scenes. A massive house party. A guy wearing a glow necklacebrandishing two bottles of hard liquor. Students toasting a shot to the bestweek of their lives. Women shaking it. Every few seconds, someone shouts anexpletive.As the lyrics become even more unpublishable, the footage gets wilder. Studentsdancing in a shower of hose water. Guys standing on a balcony and pouring astream of alcohol into the open mouth of a guy below. Marijuana. Stacks of cash.Kissing. Fighting. Dancing. Chugging. Shotgunning. Funneling. And more dancing.This is an "I'm Shmacked" video, the creation of two 20-somethings who launcheda production company in college. Shmacked, according to Urban Dictionary, means"to become intoxicated to the point of not even being able to stand up, knowwhat's going on, or correctly pronounce any word."The team travels from school to school, often at the request of students, andrecords the most outrageous scenes it can find (with this disclaimer: "Noalcohol or illegal substance is used during the filming, just prop"). The videosget millions of page views and help to define today's college drinking culture.It's not the image that most universities want these days, especially as theypump thousands of dollars into alcohol education and branding efforts focused onacademics, not keg stands."It is important to emphasize that it paints a picture of only a small portionof our student population," said Kelly Cunningham, a University of Michiganspokeswoman. "We have many students at UM who choose not to drink, or when theychoose to drink, drink moderately."The University of Virginia graduates had to line up for the ceremony at 9:30a.m. In the final minutes, they finished off their drinks and closed out theirtabs.On the porch of a fraternity house, three guys popped open champagne, then racedto finish first. The Vitamin C song "Graduation" blared:Can we survive it out there?Can we make it somehow?I guess I thought that thiswould never end. And suddenlyit's like we're women and men.Will the past be a shadow thatwill follow us around?Will these memories fadewhen I leave this town?Around the university's most historic building, the Rotunda, thousands ofgraduates lined up in matching robes and caps. "I'm scared!" one guydramatically said as he dragged himself toward the ceremony. Most walkedconfidently. A few pinballed. A couple slipped on the wet grass.The ceremony began. Speakers shared inspirational thoughts. A business studentsipped an oversize can of Bud Light. An engineering student sprinted out of thecrowd, looking ill. Everyone sang the school song.They moved their tassels. And then they marched into the real world.Jenna Johnson is a Washington Post staff writer. To comment on this story,e-mail wpmagazine@washpost.com or visit washingtonpost.com/magazine.Sepa ratin g the wild oat sf rom the cha ffby Jenna Johnson / photo illustrations by James Worrell