THE BED IS TILTING!Or the couch, or whatever. A futon. Slanted.She hadn't noticed it before, but now she can't stop noticing. Like the princessand the pea.By objective measure, the tilt is negligible, a fraction of an inch, but shecan't be fooled by appearances, not with the sleep mask on. In her innerdarkness, the slight tilt magnifies, and suddenly she feels as if she mightslide off, and that idea makes her giggle."I feel really, really weird," she says. "Crooked!"Donna Kilgore laughs, a high-pitched sound that contains both thrill andanxiety. That she feels anything at all, anything other than the weighty,oppressive numbness that has filled her for 11 years, is enough in itself tomake her giddy.But there is something more at work inside her, something growing from thelittle white capsule she swallowed just minutes ago. She's subject No. 1 in ahistoric experiment, the first U.S. government-sanctioned research in twodecades into the potential of psychedelic drugs to treat psychiatric disorders.This 2004 session in the office of a Charleston, S.C., psychiatrist is beingrecorded on audiocassettes, which Donna will later hand to a journalist.The tape reveals her reaction as she listens to the gentle piano music playingin her headphones. Behind her eyelids, movies begin to unreel. She tries to saywhat she sees: Cars careening down the wrong side of the road. Vivid images ofher oldest daughter, then all three of her children. She's overcome with anall-consuming love, a love she thought she'd lost forever."Now I feel all warm and fuzzy," she announces. "I'm not nervous anymore.""What level of distress do you feel right now?" a deeply mellow voice beside herasks.Donna answers with a giggle. "I don't think I got the placebo," she says.FOURTEEN YEARS AGO, Donna Kilgore was raped.When the stranger at the door asked if her husband were home, she hesitated. Notlong, but long enough. That was her mistake."That was it," Donna, 39 now, is saying. "He pushed in. I backed up and pickedup a poker from the fireplace. I was screaming. He says, 'I've got a gun. If youcooperate, I won't kill you.' He unzipped his jacket and reached in. I thought,this is it. This is how I'm going to die. My life didn't flash before my eyes. Iwasn't thinking about my daughter. Just that one cold, hard fact. I checked out.I could feel it, like hot molasses pouring all over my body. I went completelynumb."She dropped the poker.Afterward, she stayed strong. She wasn't going to make the classic victim'smistake of blaming herself for provoking the attack. She had no doubts aboutthat. She'd screamed and screamed until the police came through the door. (Theylater reported that her attacker jumped up, clutching for his pants, saying,"She said I could!")And, bottom line, she'd survived. She'd be fine, she told herself. She waswrong."It was what it must feel like to have no soul," she says. She quit all herhobbies. A passion for tennis died. Devastating nightmares woke her in the dark,her heart racing and palms slick. She dreamed of explosions, tornadoes, bearseating people."Psychologists will tell you to go to your happy place," she says. "Well, myhappy place had bears in it."Five years passed. Whatever went wrong, or right, in her life, it felt like itwas happening to someone else. She found a wonderful, loving man -- she couldstill recognize those qualities, even though she couldn't respond to them fully-- and remarried. She had more kids. But even her family felt alien. It was"almost like going overseas and being an exchange student, living with someoneelse's family . . . I didn't like being close to people, and my children didn'tunderstand that. Mommy was always busy." She was often irritable, and felt anunaccountable anger, which sometimes morphed for no obvious reason into aheavy-breathing, sweat-streaming rage. Almost worse, she couldn't feel the loveshe knew surrounded her. "I was afraid it was gone -- when you look at yourchild and say, 'I would die for that child in a heartbeat,' I didn't feel it --and I was afraid I would never get it back."As she says this, she never breaks eye contact. Talking about her trauma and hertreatment is a decision she's made, she says. "It's important." But it is also,obviously, hard, and she looks a little pale as she explains what it was likefor those five years: "I would put my finger on my arm, and it would be liketouching a dead body."Incredibly, she didn't see a connection to the rape. Then, one evening, she wassitting on her couch watching a disaster show on TV -- she calls her interest inthe genre "an addiction"-- when her apartment door opened. Something about theangle of it seemed odd. As she looked at the door, the room began to swirl. "Itwas kind of like a whirlwind, make-you-dizzy moment, and I saw the whole thing,that man pushing through the door, the warm molasses pouring down, my body goingnumb. I call it, 'when I left my body.'"Now she understood: She had left her body -- and never come back.The panic attacks began at work one Friday. She felt butterflies in her stomach,then couldn't breathe. "I thought: 'Oh my God, I'm dying. I'm having a heartattack.'"It passed, but she was shaken, especially because she'd also been havingfainting spells and migraine headaches. She went to a neurologist "sure theywere going to find a brain tumor."The doctor was getting ready to order an MRI scan when Donna just blurted itout: "Things don't feel real to me."The doctor turned. "Oh? There's a word for that," she remembers him saying. Theword is dissociation, which happened to be a prime symptom of post-traumaticstress disorder, or PTSD.PTSD is usually triggered by combat, rape, childhood abuse, a serious accidentor natural disaster -- any situation in which someone believes death isimminent, or in which a significant threat of serious injury is accompanied byan intense sense of helplessness or horror. Not all or even most trauma victimsdevelop PTSD, but enough do so that nearly 24 million Americans, or 8 percent ofthe population, have suffered from it at some point in their lifetime. It isestimated that in any given year, more than 5 million Americans have active PTSD-- a costly problem in humanitarian and economic terms. Drug and alcohol abuseare all-too-frequent consequences of PTSD, as is loss of productivity and theneed for expensive, long-lasting medical treatment.The ever-lengthening Iraq war will count among its other costs a legacy ofthousands of veterans in need of psychiatric treatment. The government estimatesthat already more than 50,000 soldiers -- about 4 percent of those who have beendeployed to Iraq and Afghanistan -- have been treated for symptoms of PTSD. Manymore might actually have it: Military studies put the number at 12 to 20 percentof those returning from Iraq and 6 to 11 percent of those returning fromAfghanistan. And the news gets worse."Vets with PTSD are particularly costly to the [Veterans Affairs] system," saysLinda Bilmes, a lecturer in public policy at Harvard's Kennedy School ofGovernment. "They constitute 8 percent of the claims, but 20 percent of thepayments." Bilmes, who has studied the ongoing costs of the wars, estimates thattreating Iraq vets with PTSD over the next 50 years will cost taxpayers $100billion. This is based on findings that one-third of vets with PTSD will remainunemployable, and all suffering with PTSD will have a much higher than normallikelihood of needing treatment for physical ailments. And that's just thedirect costs to the budget. "Assuming that the war continues, though with lowerdeployments, through 2017," she says, and assuming the rate of PTSD isn't beingunderreported, the cost of lost economic productivity to the U.S. economy willbe in excess of $65 billion.Whatever the cause, the symptoms of PTSD are fairly consistent, and Donna's --which rated severe on a standard diagnostic test -- were typical. Her prognosiswas not great. Some antidepressants can diminish symptoms, and various forms ofpsychotherapy can, long term, sometimes untangle the psychological knot at theroot of the problem. But the nature of PTSD makes therapy problematic. The verysymptoms -- acute anxiety, heightened fear, diminished trust and inability torevisit the trauma -- are a direct roadblock to healing. At least one-third ofpeople with PTSD never fully recover.On that day of Donna's first diagnosis, the doctor sent her up to the seventhfloor, the psych floor, to begin years of therapy and medication, none of whichhelped much, Donna says.And then she found Michael Mithoefer and became the first to take one of hislittle white capsules.THE CAPSULES RESIDE IN A SAFE, armed with an alarm and bolted to the floor ofMithoefer's office, a 1950s-vintage cottage on the road between downtownCharleston and Sullivans Island. It's been tastefully remodeled to create asoftly lit, high-ceilinged sanctuary in the back, scattered with art andfurnished with, among other things, the ever-so-slightly inclined futon whereDonna got crooked.The elaborate security is occasioned by what is inside the capsules: MDMA, asynthetic compound that is a chemical cousin to both mescaline andmethamphetamine. Unabbreviated, MDMA is a real mouthful --3,4-methylenedioxymethamphetamine -- but it is far better known by its streetname, ecstasy, millions of doses of which are synthesized in criminal labs fromthe oil of the sassafras plant. At one point, Mithoefer recounts, agents of theDrug Enforcement Administration, there to inspect the security arrangements,inquired about the therapist who rents the office adjoining the safe room."I guess they were concerned she might drill through the wall into the safe andsteal the MDMA," Mithoefer says. "Though there's such a small amount in there,and it's so readily available on the street in such large quantities, I don'tsee how that would be worth the effort, even if she were so inclined."Mithoefer became a psychiatrist in 1991, after a decade as an emergency roomdoctor -- he had found himself less interested in the bodily traumas hispatients suffered than the psychological traumas that so often preceded theirappearance in the emergency room. He's got that mellow, empathic vibe that theyjust can't teach at therapy school. He always seems moments away from asympathetic chuckle, an understanding murmur or a sage observation. A fit 61,with a brown ponytail and relaxed dress code, Mithoefer has become theaccidental point man of a movement to revive medical research into psychedelicdrugs. His Food and Drug Administration-approved PTSD study that began withDonna Kilgore in April 2004 is now nearly completed, with 18 of 21 subjectshaving undergone the double-blind sessions. Two Iraq veterans with war-relatedPTSD, the study's first, are cleared to begin. Close behind are similar studiesin Switzerland and Israel. At Harvard's McLean Hospital, researchers are set toevaluate MDMA therapy as a way to alleviate acute anxiety in terminal cancerpatients. In Vancouver, Canada, the effectiveness of an ongoing program to treatdrug addiction with another potent psychedelic drug, ibogaine, is underscrutiny. There is a proposal, based on case histories, to study the ability ofLSD to defuse crippling cluster headaches.All of these studies are directly or indirectly funded by a surprisingly robustorganization whose roots stretch back 40 years to the psychedelic movement ofthe 1960s. Before Harvard lecturer Timothy Leary started channeling aliens andurging college kids to turn on and drop out, an intense cadre of doctors andresearchers had come to believe that psychedelic drugs would revolutionizepsychiatry, providing those with a wide spectrum of psychological problems -- oreven just ordinary life difficulties -- the ability to, basically, healthemselves.But Leary's bizarre career, which morphed from doing research on psychedelics tocheerleading their widespread abuse, obscured whatever medical potential thedrugs may have had. Instead, authorities focused on the risks, and oftenexaggerated them. Richard Nixon famously called Leary "the most dangerous man inAmerica." After a slow start, regulators and legislators cracked down hard.Millions of dollars in enforcement efforts were unable to end abuse ofpsychedelic drugs, but they effectively stamped out sanctioned research intotheir healing potential.A small group of psychedelic researchers and therapists willing to break the lawcontinued their work clandestinely. A much larger group did not flout the law,but waited in the wings and is now emerging. Experience had convinced thesetherapists that psychedelics, along with significant risks, had potential foreven more significant benefits.This may have been especially true of MDMA.Mithoefer states the case in an article he wrote for a book of scholarly essays,Psychedelic Medicine: Social, Clinical and Legal Perspectives: "The reportedresults [of early therapeutic use] include decreased fear and anxiety, increasedopenness, trust and interpersonal closeness, improved therapeutic alliance,enhanced recall of past events with an accompanying ability to examine them withnew insight, calm objectivity and compassionate self-acceptance."In short, a therapist's dream. Or is it a hallucination?THE PROMISE OF A BLOCKBUSTER TREATMENT, one that doesn't just address symptomsbut defuses underlying causes, is a particularly seductive vision right now. Areport issued last month by the National Academy of Sciences' Institute ofMedicine emphasizes the uncertain effectiveness of current PTSD treatments, andthe urgent need of returning soldiers who will suffer from it.To a non-scientist, the very preliminary results of Mithoefer's study wouldsuggest that MDMA might be just what the doctors ordered. Of the subjects whohave been through both the MDMA-assisted therapy and the three-monthpost-experiment follow-up tests, Mithoefer reports, every one showed dramaticimprovement.But scientists are a cautious lot. "It's potentially nice to hear those things,"says Scott Lilienfeld, an associate professor of psychology at Emory University.But until results are statistically analyzed and peer-reviewed for publication,"you can't really judge them. The plural of anecdote is not data." Especiallywith a drug that has considerable risk, Lilienfeld cautions, it pays to beskeptical.A.C. Parrott, a psychologist at Swansea University in Britain who has devoted alarge part of his career to studying the dangers of MDMA, is far more thanskeptical. "MDMA is a very powerful, neurochemically messy and potentiallydamaging drug," he says. The government "should never have given it a licensefor these trials. Certainly I would not give it a license for any furthertrials."But one of the nation's premier PTSD researchers, Roger K. Pitman, a professorof psychiatry at Harvard Medical School, disagrees. Morphine is a powerful,potentially damaging drug, Pitman says, "and we use it to treat the pain ofcancer patients. Sound medical reasons should trump."Current treatment for PTSD is "partial at best," he says. "There's a lot of roomfor improvement, and we need to be looking for novel treatments."Though Pitman calls the MDMA study "a fringe hypothesis" -- "I've never heardanybody talk about it at any PTSD meeting I've ever attended in 25 years" -- healso observes that, based solely on a description of the preliminary results,"this seems worth further study. A lot of new ideas meet with rejection andskepticism, and we need to be careful not to be prejudiced against somethingjust because it seems wacky. If it has a 5 percent chance, or even a 1 percentchance, of being effective in treatment of PTSD, it's worth pursuing."AS THE SESSION TAPE ROLLS TOWARD THE FIRST HOUR, the giggles have passed. DonnaKilgore is still on the crooked couch, but she sounds very level. She's talkingabout her husband. Her voice is clear, calm, but you can hear something in it,something rising in the throat like water from a newly tapped spring."I just have a deep feeling of gratitude for all the love and understanding he'sshown. I know it's been tough on him, not understanding what I've been goingthrough and not knowing how to help. But if it wasn't for him, I don't think I'dbe here."The study protocol requires that a hospital crash cart and a trauma doctor bepresent during all therapy sessions, in case the drug precipitates a medicalemergency. They are waiting a room away, a reminder that this is a test of apotent experimental drug, though you'd never know that from the calm, sobertenor of the conversation. It's really more of a monologue: Michael Mithoeferand his wife, Annie, a nurse and co-therapist, mostly listen, only occasionallymurmuring supportively. This is their treatment plan: Construct a reassuring,protective environment and "let the drug do its work.""He used to spend a lot of time laughing and cutting up," Donna continues abouther husband, "but things have gotten so serious. I love him with all my heart,but there just hasn't been that warm fuzzy feeling, how you get excited everytime you see him. It's put a damper on it. I don't fully enjoy anything. I don'tenjoy my kids. I don't enjoy my dog."It's frustrating, just going through the motions day after day after day. Idon't get any joy out of it."She stops talking, and you can hear the faint strain of music coming from herheadphones. She takes a deep breath. The blood pressure cuff, on a five-minutetimer, starts to inflate."It sucks to just exist, and not live," Donna announces.FIRST SYNTHESIZED IN 1912 -- A BYPRODUCT IN THE MANUFACTURE OF A DRUG TOSUPPRESS BLEEDING -- MDMA was little known until a former Dow Chemicalresearcher named Alexander Shulgin tried it himself in 1977. Shulgin had madehis reputation, and made Dow millions, by inventing the first biodegradablepesticide. After that success, he was able to work on whatever he chose. Hechose psychedelic drugs, based on a transforming experience he had withmescaline in the late 1950s. "I understood that our entire universe is containedin the mind and the spirit," he wrote. "We may choose not to find access to it,we may even deny its existence, but it is indeed there inside us, and there arechemicals that can catalyze its availability."Shulgin made it his business to find those chemicals. In a New York Timesprofile in 2005, when Shulgin was 79, he estimated that he'd synthesized 200psychoactive compounds and tested them on himself. Their effects ranged fromparalyzing him with fear to granting him ecstatic visions. With MDMA, he wasconvinced that he'd found something special."I feel absolutely clean inside, and there is nothing but pure euphoria," hewrote in his field journal. "The cleanliness, clarity, and marvelous feeling ofsolid inner strength continued . . . through the next day. I am overcome by theprofundity of the experience."It's not well understood why MDMA, or any psychedelic drug, can produceextraordinary experiences. But in MDMA's case, the crude explanation seems toinvolve a drug-forced rush of serotonin in the brain. Serotonin assists in thetransmission of nerve impulses and plays a role in regulating a wide range ofsensations and impulses, from mood, emotion, sleep and appetite to sensation,pleasure and sexuality. One recent study pointed out physiological similaritiesbetween a brain under the influence of MDMA and the post-orgasmic state, alsoknown for producing emotional closeness and euphoria.Whatever the cause, Shulgin saw in the overwhelming positive feelings the drugengendered huge potential as an aid in the psychotherapeutic process. "I madesamples of it for a good therapist friend of mine, Leo Zeff, which brought himout of retirement and into the enthusiastic task of making it availableinternationally with his psychotherapy friends," Shulgin recalls in an e-mail."Its popularity spread in part by his enthusiasm, but in part by the fact thatits ability to open the doors of communication made it widely popular as asocial drug."BY MULTIPLE ACCOUNTS, MDMA EMERGED AS A STREET DRUG IN 1984 at a new andinstantly hot Dallas nightclub called Starck. Sold at $12 a hit, MDMA -- whichZeff's crowd had nicknamed Adam, for its presumed potential to return man toinnocent bliss -- became ecstasy. Part of the drug's appeal was that it madedancing feel great, and staying up all night easy. But there was more. Here's anaccount of first-time ecstasy use from that period, recalled in the AustinChronicle in 2000:"The street lights got brighter, I could see the stars, car lights, even theshadows in this alley were, you know, more so. And I felt this tingle that beganin my fingers and spread all over my body, coming in waves, just thisindescribable feeling of aliveness. It was as if the nerves in my skin had beendormant all these years and were just now waking up and stretching. Just likethat. And after this initial rush of pleasure came an overwhelming -- and I meanover-[expletive]-whelming -- feeling of total and complete positivity. Any andall fears I had harbored about doing my first drug were waylaid instantly. Itwas pure bliss, but it didn't knock me off my feet, or feel scary in any way."My girlfriend . . . and I . . . lay in the wet grass and watched the stars andcuddled. And we talked. We talked for hours. We talked about everything.Everything. It was probably the best, most open and honest conversation I'veever had with anyone in my entire life."Word-of-mouth reviews such as that fueled an explosion of recreational use. From1984 to 2001, the graph line for the number of first-time users of MDMA in theNational Survey of Drug Use and Health quickly shot up, reaching a peak ofnearly 2 million new users in 2001 alone. Concern about the drug, spurred by aspike in emergency room visits from rave bars and MDMA-related deaths, went upright along with it. Ecstasy use has since tapered off, though it is stillsubstantial. The 2005 survey estimated that 11.5 million Americans had usedecstasy, and 615,000 had tried it for the first time that year. The average ageskewed young. In 2001, 5.2 percent of eighth-graders and 11.7 percent of highschool seniors had tried ecstasy (both numbers have been roughly cut in half inthe most recent, 2006 survey).When Zeff began his mission to spread the MDMA gospel in therapeutic circles,the drug was perfectly legal. But federal drug enforcement officials, who hadtaken half a decade to ban LSD, weren't about to delay on ecstasy. Within monthsof the rave boom in Dallas, officials announced they intended to list MDMA asSchedule I, the category reserved for dangerous drugs with high potential forabuse and no accepted medical use.Rick Doblin was waiting for them.LIKE A LOT OF OTHER PEOPLE, Doblin had discovered psychedelic drugs in collegein the early '70s. By his own description a somewhat awkward, searching kid, hetried LSD in 1971 at New College of Florida, then a small, experimental liberalarts school in Sarasota. Very liberal and very experimental. "There was thistradition of all-night dance parties, until sunrise, under the palm trees, usingpsychedelics," Doblin says. It was bacchanalian, yes, but Doblin found somethingelse in the experience, something "therapeutic and spiritual.""I was like, man, this is the kind of energy, the kind of psychic stuff" thatcould lead him to the personal growth he had been yearning for. Ironically, saysDoblin, "this was right as research into therapeutic uses was pretty much beingshut down."Doblin's world was legally circumscribed in another way as well. He was a draftresister. "What could I possibly do with my life, because I couldn't be alicensed anything, doctor, teacher a professional of some sort. All that wasclosed to me because I was a criminal."As long as he was already an outlaw, Doblin reasoned, be might as well be one ofthose who disregarded drug criminalization and worked underground as aself-trained psychedelic therapist. When he encountered MDMA in 1982, he becameconvinced that he'd found the perfect therapeutic tool, one that had an LSD-likepower to hurdle psychic roadblocks but lacked the frightening disorientation.Plus, it was still legal, and by then, so was Doblin -- President Jimmy Carterhad pardoned draft resisters in 1977. Now Doblin had a vision: He would returnto the mainstream and bring psychedelic therapy with him.When, in 1985, prohibition of MDMA came, as everyone knew it would, Doblin hadalready prepared his case with a coalition of like-minded pro bono lawyers,researchers and therapists. He even won a round -- an administrative law judgeruled that MDMA met the standards for having a legitimate medical applicationand being safe enough for medical use. But the DEA rejected that recommendationand MDMA remained banned.Doblin, decided he couldn't win in the courts and switched his crusade to thelab. He would focus on fostering the science that would prove the benefits ofpsychedelic therapy outweighed the risks. In 1986, he founded a nonprofitorganization -- the Multidisciplinary Association for Psychedelic Studies -- toraise money for the research. (Knowing he would need to navigate through theobstacle course of federal bureaucracy, he entered Harvard's Kennedy School ofGovernment and, in 2001, received a PhD in public policy.) On the elaborate MAPShome page -- alongside a psychedelic research library, the organization'sfinancial statements, elaborate news updates and notices of psychedelic art forsale -- is a splash box featuring the MAPS "Rites of Passage Project." It's anextended pitch for the idea that "within responsible limits" parents cansometimes find great benefit in doing psychedelic drugs with their adolescentchildren, and includes an archive of testimonials with taglines such as"Mother-Son Peyote Ritual . . . a beautiful rite of passage a mother shared withher teenaged son, strengthening his family connection, his sense of self, andhis bond with nature."Doblin is frank about his passionate desire to defuse the drug war, which hebelieves is counterproductive and an assault on personal liberties. He doesn'tthink the government should be able to tell Americans what to put in theirbodies, and he has even volunteered in interviews that he sometimes finds ituseful to consider important personal and strategic issues with psychedelicassistance. He acknowledges that his outspokenness caused a schism in theoriginal coalition that fought against relegating MDMA to Schedule I -- many ofhis colleagues wanted to stress their support for the criminalization of anynonprescription use. He has seen it jeopardize one of his most prizedaccomplishments -- MAPS funding of the Harvard MDMA-cancer study almost killedit. Doblin had to withdraw MAPS as a sponsor and persuade a donor to give themoney directly to Harvard instead. He must realize he is handing his critics apotent argument, i.e.: Don't be fooled by the careful science and limited goalsof the current studies; the real goal is unrestricted use of psychedelic drugs.So, why does he do it? "Sometimes, it's just a relief to say, 'This is what Ibelieve,'" Doblin says.His honesty has apparently been no impediment to soliciting cash from fellowbelievers, which, fortunately for MAPS, include some entrepreneurs with a highregard for the psychedelic experience -- and a distaste for government drugpolicies -- who struck it rich in the tech boom. Last year, MAPS donationstopped $1 million.MAPS continues to fund Mithoefer's study, which is estimated to cost $900,000through completion. And Doblin will raise money to support the much moreexpensive next step -- Phase III trials, which involve multiple sites andmultiple therapists who will treat hundreds of people suffering from PTSD. If itproves safe and effective, MDMA would be certified as a prescription drug. Thatall could take five years and $5 million, Doblin says. "But if it took twicethat long and cost twice that much, it would be worth every penny."Mithoefer speaks far more cautiously of his eventual goal. "If MDMA indeedproves an effective treatment for PTSD," not only should the drug requireprescription, but it should be administered only in licensed clinics withspecially trained therapists, "like methadone," he says. Regarding Doblin'scontroversial views, Mithoefer says: "I respect his openness. I think it's agood thing that there's nothing sneaky about Rick, but that's not what I'moriented toward. I'm oriented toward doing medical research. There are realpatients suffering with real problems, and I'm trying to learn through goodscience if there are some methods to help people heal."MITHOEFER DOES NOT WANT TO TALK ABOUT HIS PERSONAL EXPERIENCE WITH MDMA, exceptto say that it occurred when the drug was legal. But it must have stuck withhim. "I was working in the emergency department, looking for some deeper way toaddress people's problems," he recalls. "Stan Grof's work really got myattention."Stanislav Grof, a Czech psychiatrist and one of the first to researchtherapeutic uses of LSD, believed that the West had lost touch with the healingpotential of non-ordinary states of consciousness. When psychedelic drugs becameillegal in the United States, Grof created an alternative called holotropicbreathwork. The idea was that hyperventilation, combined with music and aritualistic setting, could foster an altered consciousness, through whichpatients could be guided into insight and problem resolution. Mithoefer went toCalifornia to train with Grof, then began to use breathwork in his own practice.And though he says it is often effective, he wondered how much more could beaccomplished using MDMA. In 2000, Mithoefer approached Doblin to ask if he knewof a country in which a study of MDMA-assisted therapy might be permitted."You can do it here," Doblin said. "And we'll help."Doblin says his optimism was based on a change in leadership and culture in thefederal bureaucracy. When he first founded MAPS, Doblin says, "the FDA wasrefusing to permit all the studies we proposed," even one attempting to use MDMAtherapy to ease the fears of a dying cancer patient who had found solace usingthe drug before it was banned. "The FDA said, 'No, we have to protect him frombrain damage,'" Doblin says.Then in 1992, after six years of refusals, the FDA approved a MAPS-funded humansafety study. Safety studies are required before any drug can move on to PhaseII -- studies of a specific medical application. In MDMA's case, this wasparticularly important because many believed the drug to be so toxic. Eventalking about the possibility of therapeutic benefits would only make morepeople want to try it, some believed, and that would inevitably lead to moreemergency room visits. And deaths.More than 200 fatalities involving ecstasy use in the United States werereported to the Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services Administration from1994 to 2001. Many of these deaths were related to traffic accidents and the useof other drugs and alcohol or other incidental causes. Of deaths directlyrelated to ecstasy, most were caused by heatstroke. MDMA exerts a stress on thebody similar to strenuous exercise and increases core body temperature, sodancing all night in a hot, crowded bar can quickly go from fun to deadly. Morerarely, some ravers, paranoid about hyperthermia, have reportedly consumed somuch water, many gallons, that the water itself became toxic and killed them.But, even in the context of uncontrolled doses and settings, deaths from MDMAare relatively infrequent events, considering the estimated tens of millions ofdoses taken.Perhaps of even greater concern was the possibility that MDMA could causepermanent brain damage. Though research is ongoing and hotly debated, it's clearthat test animals injected with high doses experienced lasting deformation ofserotonin receptors in the brain.There were worrisome human studies as well: In some, long-term recreationalusers of ecstasy performed more poorly on tests for short-term memory and someother cognitive functions than control groups, though the meaning of theseresults is complicated by the fact that most long-term ecstasy users also useother dangerous drugs.The new safety study was not testing the dangers of MDMA under the conditions ofillegal use. Eighteen people were given dosages similar to those that would beused in psychotherapy sessions, and the settings were comparable to the calm ofa psychiatrist's office. The gist of the findings: MDMA given under thosecircumstances produced no acute harm or evidence of brain impairment. Theseresults were bolstered by a Swiss study in which people who had never beforetaken MDMA were given brain scans before and after being given a singletherapeutic-range dose of the drug. Comparison of the before and after scansshowed no damage.Given those results, Doblin figured the time was right for persuading regulatorsto approve Mithoefer's proposal, a placebo-controlled, double-blind study(meaning that neither doctor nor patient would be told who got the real drug).The safety study, and others done elsewhere, had made the case: Many valuablemedicines have been developed from far more problematic drugs.Doblin and the Mithoefers spent 18 months developing an elaborate protocol forthe study: Research subjects would be limited to people who'd struggled with thedisorder for years, and whom conventional treatments hadn't helped. The caseswould be relatively severe, as scored on the standard diagnostic test, andsubjects would be required to undergo multiple non-drug therapy sessions withthe Mithoefers before and after the two MDMA sessions to prepare them for theexperience and to help them process it afterward. The protocol dealt with suchdetails as what kind of touching would be permitted (supportive, non-sexual),and what kind music would be played on earphones (soothing).Submitted to the FDA in October 2001, it was approved a month later.Then, in September 2002, the institutional review board engaged to guarantee thestudy's ethics -- de rigueur for human medical research -- abruptly withdrew itssupport. A study published in Science magazine found that relatively small dosesof MDMA had created severe damage to the dopamine system in the brains ofsquirrel monkeys and orangutans. Dopamine damage could put human users at riskof developing Parkinson's disease, among other problems. In the case of theprimate test subjects, the Science article said, the drug was so toxic that twoof 10 animals died, and two more were in such bad shape that the researchersdidn't give them a planned third injection.After 2 1/2 years of work, the PTSD study appeared to be doomed.A year later, Science printed a retraction: The vials containing the drugs thatso damaged the monkeys' brains had been mislabeled. It wasn't MDMA after all,but methamphetamine. A new review board quickly signed on to support Mithoefer'sstudy, but the irony of the wasted year wasn't lost on him: The misidentifieddrug that had been deemed too toxic to evaluate for medical use, the drug thatwas far more toxic than MDMA, was already a prescription drug.Meanwhile, in the four years the MDMA study lingered between concept andreality, Donna Kilgore had been driven to the brink. She took "everyanti-depressant you can name," tried a dozen therapists and an almost equalnumber of therapeutic approaches. But nothing made that numbness, panic and ragerecede."I was getting to the point," she recalls, "where it was either go sit on amountaintop or go dive off a cliff."That's when a therapist told her about the Mithoefers' experiment. She applied,and became patient No. 1.DONNA SPENDS A LOT OF HER TIME ON THE CROOKED COUCH holding the Mithoefers'hands, one on each side. She needs that reassurance now, recalling the rape."I was backed into a corner, nowhere to go, desperate. I kept telling him Iwouldn't tell anybody," she says.Can she feel that desperation now?"A little bit, yeah."Minutes pass. On the tape, you can hear the blood pressure cuff whir to life asthe amplified beat of her heart thumps faintly in the background.Finally she speaks, her voice rising with conviction."I feel protected. I do. I feel completely protected. I don't feel like I'mhanging out there anymore . . . It feels good to be loved. It feels good to beprotected."Minutes pass. She is lost in a vision, she will say later. She can see herselfstanding on a ridge, high above a valley shrouded in mist. Down in the valley,she knows, is a battlefield, containing all kinds of terrors. Her terrors. Sheknows they are there, but can't see their shape through the fog. Now the fog islifting. Now she can begin to see."You're right," she says, as if in response to an assertion that hasn't beenmade. "I am angry. I'm angry at myself. It changed from being afraid to beingmad at myself, that I allowed it to happen . . ."And not just that," she says. There's a sudden, involuntary intake of breath."I think that a lot of this baggage I'm carrying around is really stuff that Iput in there myself. I stacked the luggage. Either in disappointment in myselfor self-blame. Don't get me wrong. Under no circumstances do I think that Ideserved it or I asked for it or that I did something to bring that on. I don'tfeel that way at all . . . It's like you take your base line [which is] fear,and you throw some self-doubt on top of that, and then you throw somedesperation on top of that, and, before you know it, you got a seven-layerburrito going there. I mean I can feel every one of them. I don't know how toexpress it, but I can feel them . . . just one right on top of the other, andmaybe I've done that for so long, that when the rape happened, that was maybethe straw that broke the camel's back, and my mind said, 'Okay, that's enough,you're cut off, no more.' There's no more room on the pile."The Mithoefers murmur sympathetic words as Donna continues unburdening herself."It's not just about the rape. It's not just about any one thing. It's so manydifferent things . . . All I can remember feeling, as far as I can remember, isfear. Heart-stopping, gut-dropping fear . . . I've kept all this inside for solong, and it feels so heavy . . . these emotions -- it's like I've been trainedto be this way as long as I can remember -- to be seen and not heard. Just fromthat point on, I've tried to make myself as small and inconspicuous as possible.And then the rape happened, and you're headline news . . . I was ashamed."The study protocol calls for the therapists to periodically ask the subjects torate their level of distress on a scale of zero to 10."Zero," Donna says quickly. Another pause. "No, that's not entirely true. That'sa lie. I would say about a two. It's a disturbing revelation, I guess you couldsay."Once again, she pauses."I feel calmer, a whole lot calmer," she says. "Kind of putting it all together,rather than just throwing it all in a box.""OH, MAN, I'M IMPRESSED," SAYS MARK WAGNER, a clinical psychologist on facultyat the Medical University of South Carolina in Charleston, an expert inpsychological testing and an independent evaluator conducting the before andafter PTSD assessments in Mithoefer's study. "I didn't know much about theclinical use of MDMA before this," Wagner says, "But I've seen each and everyone of these patients, and, just as a clinical psychologist, it is impressive tosee the degree of treatment response these folks have had. There are a couple ofareas in medicine, like hip replacement, where one day you are bedridden, andthe next you're out playing tennis. Or with Lasik surgery, you're blind, andthen you can see. Nothing in psychology is like that. But this was dramatic."Lilienfeld, the Emory psychologist, is less enthusiastic. "These subjects knewif they got the drug or the placebo," he says. "Particularly when you have avery dramatic and powerful intervention, people may change but not in alongstanding way."Wagner points out that two subjects who got the placebo were convinced they hadgotten MDMA, and others who did get it weren't sure. The people who wronglybelieved they'd gotten the drug initially showed improvement, but quicklyrelapsed. "The chance that a placebo effect would last for three months is veryslight," Wagner says. "And for it to last for a year or more, which anecdotallywe believe might be the case here, would be extremely remote."But if MDMA does work, the question remains, why? "Patients in our study had afear of the fear," Wagner says. "Something about the MDMA made it possible forthem to approach the feared thought, the feared 'place' in their mind -- andwhen they got there, it wasn't as terrible as they thought. A lot of thesepeople, the light bulb went off, they had the insight, but there's still a lotof work to do. They've had this for years, it's shaped their lives, and now theyhave to rebuild them."In Mithoefer's Psychedelic Medicine article, he theorizes that the breakthroughscame from having the psychic calm -- the feeling Donna had of being protected --that allowed subjects to meaningfully reexperience and reassess the events thattraumatized them, and at the same time be able to feel a powerful new connectionto positive aspects of their lives. In Donna's case it was the love of herhusband and children. Another patient told Mithoefer: "I had never before feltwhat I felt today in terms of loving connection. I'm not sure I can reach itagain without MDMA, but I'm not without hope that it's possible. Maybe it's likehaving an aerial map, so now I know there's a trail."For some subjects, the most significant part of the experience seemed to be aphysical release of mental anguish. In Mithoefer's article, he says one subjectexclaimed: "I can relax! Forty-three years of fear and not being able to feel mybody. Now I can feel my body without pain."Another subject, a 50-year-old woman named Elizabeth, had one of the moredramatic physical releases. "I thought it was supposed to be talk therapy, thatI was supposed to talk about things, but it doesn't have to be," she says. "Thedrug itself will do the work."Her trauma centered on a stepfather who viciously abused her and her brotherfrom an early age. She describes him as "a truck driver, ignorant, uneducated,Southern, moonshine-drinking, swearing, wife-beating idiot. He thought kids werethere for his entertainment, amusement and personal use."From an early age, Elizabeth was stuck in a grim survival mode. "Doesn't matterwhat you do to me, you will never touch me," is how she described it. "It was afeeling, all self-defense, all self-protection, nobody gets in."Her whole life evolved, pathologically, from that premise. Running away as anadolescent from the horrors at home, she was raped, twice, by men who picked herup as she hitchhiked. With no real concept of love and nurture, she got involvedin a series of physically and emotionally abusive relationships. When somethingtriggered memories of her abuse, she froze in a nearly catatonic state, caughtbetween fight and flight, unable to do either.During her MDMA session, Elizabeth says, she remembered that after her motherdivorced her stepfather, she'd confided to Elizabeth that he had been the bestlover she'd ever had.As she talked about how that made her feel, Elizabeth recalls, Mithoefer "waspushing me verbally. I was mad, and he was pushing me, provoking me to feel it.I just kept getting madder and madder, hitting the bed. Then the drug just tookme and slammed me down. I was sitting one second, then down on my back in thenext. I became very rigid, the tension was so powerful. I remember lying on thebed where I slammed down, looking at Dr. Mithoefer . . . like I'm mad at him forputting me through this, and this wave of energy just slammed through me, and itwas just a release of a tremendous amount of this negative energy. It waspowerful, and it was explosive. I felt like I'd been through somethingsignificant . . . My mother traded my childhood for sex!"In the weeks following the therapy sessions, Elizabeth says, she would bestanding in the kitchen, or just sitting in a chair at work, and without warningthat powerful release would move through her body. Afterward, she says, "I feltat ease, a level of ease I was not familiar with, just being comfortable withinmyself, within my body."That feeling of ease has given her a new relationship with her life, she says.Difficulties continue, but "I'm not having as much problem with the puzzle. I'mable to just keep slugging away. I don't feel so much like going to bed andsucking my thumb."The problems don't disappear, Mithoefer says, they just become something thatcan be managed."All subjects have told us they found MDMA helpful," Mithoefer says in hisarticle. "Some have felt the effect . . . was dramatic and even lifesaving:however, others have reported disappointment that MDMA was not a "magic bullet"to remove all their symptoms, or have said it would have been helpful to haveone or a few additional sessions."Parrott, the MDMA critic from Britain, worries that in some cases MDMA magnifiesnegative feelings instead of positive ones, and can bring up difficult memoriesthat may be overwhelming. It's problematic, he says, that the outcome of therapysessions can be so dependent on the skill of the therapist.Mithoefer acknowledges that this is an issue and says that's precisely why hebelieves that, if MDMA is ever prescribed, it should be administered only inlicensed clinics by specially trained therapists.Still a problem, says Parrott. "Those patients who had good experiences on thedrug would often want further-on MDMA sessions (just like many novicerecreational users)," he writes in an e-mail. "This scenario is very worryingfor many obvious reasons: reducing efficacy but increasingly adverse effectsfollowing repeated usage; drug seeking elsewhere when it stopped beingforthcoming from the clinic etc; regular use leading to a variety ofpsycho-biological problems."Wagner, who questioned all of Mithoefer's subjects in detail about theirpost-therapy attitudes, thinks Parrott is way off mark. "I didn't see a singleindividual who thought: 'Oh, yeah, this is great fun. I'm going to try to go outand use this for recreational use.' All of them took this very seriously andtherapeutically. They saw it as hard, but important, work."Amy, a woman in her 40s, is a case in point. She remembers being psychologicallyand physically abused by her father "from birth," culminating one winter when helocked her in the basement for three weeks. She had a reaction to MDMA verydifferent from Donna's instant giggles. When the drug started to take effect,she says, "It just hit me, and it wasn't pleasant. I felt like I was going tothrow up. So I said, Okay, when's this happy, lovey feeling going to happen? Iwent to lie down on the couch and waited to go higher, but the drug took me downinstead. [Mithoefer] was taking notes. I felt like he was drawing circles aroundme, but he showed me his notes, and they were just notes. That's when I saw thatmy internal world and external world didn't match up, and I connected with that.I saw myself as a baby wrapped in a white blanket, my family members standingthere, and I realized, It wasn't my fault . . . I was flooded with feelings ofpeace and safety. 'It wasn't my fault. I didn't do anything,' I kept saying. 'Iwas a little girl. I was a baby.'"After the first session, I felt exhausted, like I had a really bad hangover.But everything continued to unfold. I started to make connections. Like goinginto the grocery store, I used to feel very alienated. I couldn't connect withthe other shoppers. But after the first session, I realized I could look at thepeople, and I wasn't afraid, like they were going to hurt me. I made theconnection between the way I was always sizing up my environment, the alienationand the numbness that I felt, and the abuse."It felt weird at first, but kind of nice, that I could look at someone, andthey would look back, and we'd smile at each other."But like several other of the test subjects, Amy also confronted difficult newterrain. "Sometimes to go forward you have to go backwards," she says. "I knewthat, but it wasn't comfortable to go there, back into the basement, into theabuse, into the beatings. I was apprehensive. I had already started feeling moregrounded, but I'd functioned so long on autopilot that feeling things wasdifficult."Difficult, but also better. "So many things happened," she says. "Before, Inever wore a seat belt. I would look at it but not wear it. It wasself-sabotage. But after therapy, without even thinking about it, I justautomatically started putting it on."FOR A YEAR AFTER HER TWO MDMA SESSIONS, Donna Kilgore says now, she wassymptom-free."To me, the biggest breakthrough -- it meant the world to me to be able to lookat the fear, to look at the shame. I didn't know I was ashamed. It was like I'dbeen wearing the scarlet letter. It was so heavy. When I got out of thatsession, I felt a hundred pounds lighter."Before, I knew the path was through the battlefield, but I just could not getthrough it. [But during the MDMA therapy] I knew I could walk through it, and Iwasn't afraid. The drug gave me the ability not to fear fear." Otherwise, shesays, "I would have not been able to do it."Donna's sense that she'd had a breakthrough was supported when she retook theevaluation test on which she'd rated as an extreme case just weeks earlier. Herscore had declined dramatically -- Mithoefer says that he can't give an exactnumber before publication of results -- but if she had been taking the test forthe first time, she would not have been considered to have PTSD at all.It's now been more than three years since her MDMA sessions. Donna is "stillextremely grateful for the experience," she says. But problems are starting tocrop up again."I've had a lot of stressors recently," she says. Her husband got laid off froma good job; they had to move; she had a difficult job at a dental practice forchildren.Donna was doing paperwork in the office. "It wasn't in the best part of town,"she says, "and I started to have catastrophic thinking again." It was theresurgence of the paralyzing, unreasonable fears characteristic of PTSD thatshe'd had before the MDMA sessions. "I just started being convinced that someonewas going to come in with a gun and start shooting. And then I just couldn'tlisten to the children screaming in the next room . . ."She says she had to quit the job. She begins to cry."I know I can work through it," she says, her voice breaking a little. "I knowwhat I'm fighting now, and I can fight it."Does she think it would help if she could have another MDMA therapy session?"Yes," she says quickly. "But I can't. It's illegal."Tom Shroder is editor of the Magazine. He can be reached atshrodert@washpost.com He will be fielding questions and comments about thisarticle Monday at noon at washingtonpost.com/liveonline.