"Outlander," a new   TV adaptation of the  series of fantasy books  by DianaGabaldon, is the story of Claire Randall, a nurse who has recently finishedserving in World War II and   is whisked back in time while on a secondhoneymoon in the Scottish Highlands. There are a lot of fantastical andpleasurable things about the show, which gives Claire a sexy Scottish loveinterest and features lovely, green Scottish landscapes.But one element of the "Outlander" fantasy struck me as particularly resonantfor our times: Even though Claire (played by Caitriona Balfe) has landed in anera in which the role of women is very different - as are attitudes abouteverything from sexual violence to criminal punishment - when she talks, peoplelisten to her.In one episode, Claire tartly questions the lord who holds her prisoner. "Isthere ever a good reason for rape, Master MacKenzie?" she wants to know. "I begyour pardon," the man tells her, chastened, "an unfortunate turn of phrase on mypart." In another, Claire protests to the wife of a local lawgiver when shelearns that a boy who stole a loaf of bread may lose his hand, thereby winninghim a lighter sentence. When Claire loses her temper at a tense dinner andmounts a spirited defense of Scottish independence, the British officers she isdining with are temporarily silenced.The right to speak your mind and the expectation that people will listen to, andeven act on, what you say may not seem like an particularly exorbitant luxury.But many of the political struggles women face today involve our continuingstruggle to be heard in a respectful and serious manner.Women can be marginalized even in the very forums that rely on them to sharetheir experiences.Anna, a college student who was sexually assaulted during her freshman year atHobart and William Smith Colleges, told the New York Times about thefrustrations of testifying about her experience before the school's disciplinarypanel: "I felt like I was talking to someone who knew nothing of any sort ofsocial interaction; what happens at parties; what happens in sex." Panelistsinterrupted her and each other, changing the subject before she could answer.They asked questions that were intrusive in ways that did not contribute totheir adjudication of the evidence, which in some cases they mischaracterized.Campus disciplinary procedures are meant to give students the opportunity toseek redress for the  institution's failure to keep them safe, ideally incircumstances that are less adversarial than judicial proceedings. Too often,experiences such as Anna's make women wish they had not spoken at all.Then there are the occasions when women speak out but are accused of doing soincorrectly. When Rachel Jeantel, the last person to speak to Florida teenagerTrayvon Martin before he was shot to death by George Zimmerman, testified inZimmerman's murder trial, she was excoriated for her self-presentation, herweight and her tone."Jeantel's credibility was not the only thing being questioned," wrote JelaniCobb in the New Yorker. "Her intelligence was, too."Is it any surprise, then, that women such as Texas state Sen. Wendy Davis (D)and reproductive rights advocate Sandra Fluke  became political celebrities fortheir persistence in speaking their minds, even when facing tremendousobstacles?In 2013, Davis filibustered legislation that proposed new restrictions onabortions. For 11 hours, her voice was the barrier holding back the bill, whichultimately passed. After Fluke testified before Congress in favor of theAffordable Care Act's mandate that contraception be covered by insurance plans,conservative radio host Rush Limbaugh called her a "slut" and a "prostitute,"unleashing a torrent of virulent attacks on her. Fluke was not deterred: She iscurrently running for the state Senate in California.Moments like Davis's filibuster or Fluke's testimony are electrifying preciselybecause it is so rare for women to be in a position in which we are not simply aparticipant in debates but rather are able to end them by passing laws, givingorders or implementing company-wide strategies and directives. Just 20 of the100 U.S. senators are women, and in the House, 79 of the 435 members are women.The country's armed services did not have a female four-star general until 2008,when the Army promoted Gen. Ann Dunwoody to that rank. Just 4.8 percent ofFortune 500 chief executives are women.This is why it is such a pleasure to watch Claire Randall back-talk her waythrough 18th-century Scotland. Even traveling back in time, she has preserved afreedom that, for many women, seems awfully far in the future.Alyssa Rosenberg writes The Post's Act Four blog at www.washingtonpost.com/news/act-four/.