ARTIST JUDY JASHINSKY DID NOT CREATE THE DARKLY MYSTERIOUS AMBIENCE OF HERCAPITOL HILL ROWHOUSE, with its coal-black interior. But she clearly relishesthe drama of the stage set.Inky high-gloss paint flows up the walls and over the ceiling, a perfectlybrooding backdrop for her larger-than-life history paintings. From one blackwall to the next, mural-size canvases ooze a swashbuckling palette of magenta,apricot and turquoise, banishing any possibility of gloom. In the flicker ofcandlelight, the artist's signature figures in grand 17th-century fashions lookstrangely at home. The house could be a torch-lit Tuscan castle, except for thestylish pickled oak floor."It's a great party room," Jashinsky says, recalling the time she and herhusband, Larry Finfer, both 60, removed the furniture and invited friends to adress-in-black party in their camera obscura. "All you could see were faces,hands and jewelry."As she sips a mug of herbal tea in a salon dominated by art and vintagetreasures, Jashinsky explains how she and Finfer, who is deputy director of theInterior Department's policy office, landed in their startling digs. Lessintrepid home buyers, and many artists, would have run from a cave-likeinterior. But the couple were intrigued, not intimidated, when they encounteredthe house in 1996. The previous owners, an architect and a decorator, had guttedthe three-level Victorian to make it more loftlike. And painted it all black.Jashinsky recalls looking right past the Bette Midler posters and black leatherWassily chairs to imagine a dramatic private gallery of her own."I just kept picturing what the artwork would look like," says the artist, whois a familiar figure in Washington's gallery scene.Jashinsky is best known for paintings depicting the tumultuous life of the17th-century Italian artist Artemisia Gentileschi, whose place in early Baroqueart history was assured by a scandalous rape trial pitting her virtue againstthat of the accused -- her painting teacher. The story inspired Jashinsky'sArtemisiaseries, part of which was shown at the National Museum for Women in the Arts andis included in the rare book collection of the National Gallery of Art. Theexclamation point of the project is a full-length portrait of the Italianpainter, which hangs in the Jashinsky-Finfer rowhouse, along with a mural-sizescene of Artemisia in bed. Dark walls make the rich colors pop.Through history, daring designers such as Sir Edwin Lutyens and Dorothy Draperhave dabbled in truly dark rooms. A recent issue of Domino magazine touted thevirtues of Benjamin Moore's coal-black "Soot" on the walls of a contemporarydining room. But few examples are as unrestrained as the Jashinsky-Finferresidence, where black envelops all of the main level, most of the basement andparts of the top floor.Finfer says he was immediately attracted to the space. "I like the juxtapositionof the black walls and the white floors," he says. "Neither would work withoutthe other."Or without the art.The color choice emerged at the end of a 1980s remodeling project. Previousowners moved the kitchen from the main floor to the basement, where it opens toa sunken terrace. In the old kitchen's place, they had installed a wet bar and apowder room between the enlarged salon and a light-filled sitting area. Oldplaster was covered with brown burlap. In a second decorating phase, thoseprevious owners ordered up the glossy black paint, which matched the seats ontheir Marcel Breuer chairs.Jashinsky and Finfer's taste mixes Victorian sofa and chairs with black wickerfrom Ikea. Jashinsky prefers pieces that reveal the scars of history, such as avintage armchair with a worn pink patent leather seat. "Furniture is aboutmemory," she says.On a recent afternoon, light intruded nicely through panes of glass in the frontdoor. Thanks to see-through risers in a floating staircase, the line of sighttravels without interruption from the doorstep to the back garden. A two-storyatrium, created by removing a portion of the living room ceiling to join first-and second-story bay windows, faces west.The lower level doubles as a summer living room and home office. In a cheerydeviation from the black, an eating nook has been faux-painted a delectableraspberry. The tabletop is a whimsical self-portrait in linoleum by artist SalFiorito. Colored glass bottles on window ledges catch the sunlight. Finferespecially appreciates the cool brick floor on hot days."I stay barefoot in my suit and tie until I have to go to work," he says.Evidence of the original unpainted burlap remains in the master bedroom, whereit forms a neutral backdrop for cutouts of branches and feathers from one ofJashinsky's collage projects. The bedroom door is framed in translucent panelsthat let light pass from bedroom windows to the stair landing.Color sizzles in the bathroom, where orange vertical blinds disguise thebathtub. (The downstairs powder room is crimson.) The rest of the top floor isgiven over to a media room that offers sleepover guests a special view."You can watch the sun and moon over the church across the street and almostbelieve you are in Italy," Finfer says.Jashinsky and Finfer share the house with two cats and plenty of art. A chimesculpture by Harry Bertoia came from Finfer's family. A Marcel Duchamp etchinghangs with family photos of Jashinsky's Mohican grandparents and Finfer's summercamp days on Long Island. There are works by mentors, including the lateavant-garde artist Noche Crist and landscape specialist Virginia Daley, who gaveJashinsky what she calls "my Indian name."She is "Paints in the Dark."Finfer, who spends his days working on contentious environmental issues, says hefinds peace in the unorthodox surroundings and relishes the stimulation thatcomes from art."The house creates a separation between my work and outside lives, which isimportant to me, but often hard for anyone to achieve, especially inWashington," he says. "It is also a reminder -- not that I need one -- that I ammarried to an extraordinary woman."Linda Hales, former design critic at The Post, is an editor at the newspaper.She can be reached at halesl@washpost.comOn the Web: Explore the home of Judy Jashinsky and Larry Finfer in aninteractive panorama at http://washingtonpost.com/magazine.