Late Friday night, as I watched the surreal courthouse scene play out on CNN, Ireached out to a former Penn State graduate assistant. Every time JerrySandusky's face comes across the television now, I think of what Matt Pakniswent through as a kid."Those kids who took the witness stand are heroes," Paknis said as we spokeMonday afternoon. "A conviction like that, knowing he can't hurt anyone else, isa validation for the survivors."Paknis, who let me write a story after the Penn State story broke last Novemberabout his own experience being sexually abused as a child, worked for JoePaterno for two seasons on the offensive side of the ball in the late 1980s.Now a board member of the support group Male Survivor, he said he felt aconnection with the witnesses no one but the abused can understand."You're at that age, where all these racing thoughts are happening in yourmind," he says. "What happens to a lot of kids, what happened to me, is I justdissociated - you end up leaving your body while it's going on."The worst thing is, when there are no parents to protect you, you don't knowwhere to go."That's why Paknis, too, is in favor of going after the enablers. He wasencouraged by the outcome of another case of child sexual abuse in Pennsylvaniaon Friday. A monsignor in the Philadelphia Archdiocese was found guilty of childendangerment for reassigning pedophile priests. In the first conviction of aprominent Roman Catholic official since the child sexual abuse scandal thatrocked the church broke, a monsignor who supervised priests was shown to be moreconcerned with the church's reputation and potential lawsuits than for the childvictims."If we're now actively going after the people who enabled the really evil amongus, we're on the right path," Paknis said.What happened in Happy Valley is still so sickeningly sad: Under the cover of acharitable foundation, a man took in young boys from at-risk homes, wherefathers often left and families were in chaos. He and his wife convincedeveryone they cared about these abandoned kids; they would look out for them.Then he convinced some of those boys to shower with him. He fondled and rapedsome of those children.From the evidence presented in court, many people knew, or at the least had avery good idea that inappropriate contact was going on, more than 10 years ago.And they did nothing. Actually, that's not right. They told Sandusky not tobring those kids around Penn State's main campus anymore. They didn't take awayhis keys to the gym and the workout facility. They didn't call a childprotective agency or an off-campus police officer. Their silence enabledSandusky to abuse more children.And you know who finally spoke up? One of those abused kids, now a grown adult.More of those boys, some emboldened by the realization they were not alone, cameforward as grown men.Sandusky needs to be condemned as the definition of evil. "A soul murderer,"Paknis said. "In some ways, that's worse than killing - because that kid has towalk around for the rest of his life knowing what happened to him."This is why Tim Curley and Gary Schultz and every other Penn State administratorinvolved, if found guilty of not reporting an eyewitness account of the rape ofa young boy in a shower, should do jail time. If it ever came out that DottieSandusky, his wife who took the stand in support of her husband, knew, sheshould be imprisoned too. Personally, I will never understand how someone whoshares a home with another person cannot hear the screams coming from thebasement, where Dottie's husband brought some of the boys down to "play" on hiswaterbed.To see this gray-haired bear of a man, who by all accounts had the disarmingcountenance of Winnie the Pooh, being led out in handcuffs was to see theopposite spectrums of humanity: A monster finally caged, put there by the kidshe wounded so badly.If we take nothing away from this, we need to salute those grown men, who toldtheir stories under aliases such as Victim 1, Victim 3 and Victim 8, when theiraliases should have been Adult Survivor 1, Adult Survivor 3 and Courage 8.See, some of these kids grew up playing sports. They probably have wondered whythey didn't stop it, especially if they were big and strong and felt they couldtake care of themselves. They never realized until later in life they werebrainwashed, preyed upon by a sick man who was helped by people who never spokeup.Everyone who definitively knew and didn't do anything should be held accountablefor being complicit for what happened to those  boys.The tragic lesson of this saga: It takes more than one disturbed person to steala kid's soul; it takes a village of disconnected people looking the other way.wisem@washpost.comFor previous columns by Mike Wise, visit washingtonpost.com/wise.More from the Washington Post:She The People: Does Dottie deserve a cell?Sandusky image replaced on Penn State muralPolice tape reveals Sandusky son alleging abuseAchenblog: The Thunderous verdictHard Hits: Good can come if we open our eyesEarly Lead: What's next for Sandusky, victims?