THE DETECTIVE WITH THE KIND EYES AND GENTLE MANNER led Aaralyn Mills into abarren interrogation room at the Leesburg police station on a mid-autumn day in2005. In the center of the room was a table, and on the table sat a telephone.The phone was attached to a tape recorder, which had a listening wire that thedetective placed in his ear. In the stillness of the concrete walls, theimplication of what Aaralyn was about to do was suddenly very clear. Slowly, shepicked up the receiver and dialed her father's number.She had been preparing for this call ever since she had walked into the stationa few weeks before and told the Leesburg detective, Michael Amato, that herfather, James Bevel, had molested her on countless occasions throughout herchildhood. And that on one day in particular, about 12 or 13 years before, whenshe was about 15 years old, he'd had sexual intercourse with her in an apartmentnot more than 1,500 feet from where she now sat. Amato listened patiently, thenasked if Aaralyn believed her father would admit to this. She said she was surehe would.By now, Amato knew who Aaralyn's father was, having searched the Internet forthe Rev. James Bevel. Bevel, the detective had learned, had been a crucialfigure in the 1960s civil rights movement, the architect of some of its mostsignificant moments. Now his daughter was trying to get him to admit totransgressions that could send him to jail for the rest of his life.Even so, Aaralyn would later say that she did not feel guilty that day. She wasnot angry. She did not hate her father. After years of drinking and havingthoughts of suicide, she had found peace in her life. Were it not for her8-year-old half sister, she wouldn't even be here. But the girl -- the youngestof Bevel's 16 children with seven women -- was living with him and his fourthwife in Alabama. Aaralyn and some of her other siblings were worried about whatmight happen to this child if she continued to live with their father. If theywere going to take their youngest sister away from him, Aaralyn had to do this.As the wheels of the tape recorder rolled, Aaralyn, then 27, brought up a periodof her life that she had longed to forget. She spoke in a cool, emotionlessvoice, her tone strong, her words firm."You don't consider yourself to be a pedophile?" she asked Bevel.Her questions seemed to make her father, then 69, angry. He screamed and sworeuntil it was hard to make out some of his words. All women, he shouted, areprostitutes until they reach a state where sex is only for procreation. Hecalled himself a scientist who tried to teach his children the differencebetween perversion and procreation."What female," he raged, "produces a son that's worth a goddamn, that can standon principles because his mother educated him early on to be principled, becauseshe was principled? Where is one who is not a prostitute?"None of it was new to Aaralyn, who'd heard such convoluted pseudo-philosophicaloutbursts so many times that she could repeat many of her father's theoriesherself."So, what you [are] saying [is] that all your sexual interactions with me were .. . scientific processes?" the daughter asked."Yes, ma'am," the father replied.The detective listened impassively as Bevel bellowed and Aaralyn pressed. For 90minutes, no matter where her father's rants went, she deftly turned theconversation back to that day in the apartment in Leesburg. And when it wasover, police and prosecutors had the key piece of evidence they would need tocharge an aging civil rights icon with incest.A SUMMER SQUALL MOVES ACROSS THEAFTER-NOON, thunder rattling the windows of thebrick-and-stone cottage that Aaralyn rents with her husband, Nathaniel Mills, inTakoma Park. The sky outside grows dark. Lightning flickers outside the windows,each flash a little brighter than the one before. But as Aaralyn sits at a tablein a small dining nook, hands clasped before her, she barely notices, even asone blast of thunder feels as if it will pick up the house and throw it down thehill.She often seems like this, tranquil and reflective, her voice never wavering,rarely yielding emotion. Her eyes are sharp, always appearing to absorb allaround her; yet they also retreat inside as if she has compartmentalized much ofher life and grabs each memory only when necessary.For years, she hated her birth name, Jamese. James plus an e, as if she were apiece of him. For years, she wanted to be rid of it, to wipe it from her life,and a favorite hobby became standing for hours in bookstores as she siftedthrough name books, looking for the perfect replacement for James with an e. Inher early 20s, she was married for a few years, which changed her last name fromBevel to Machado. That helped. But after she was divorced, she began to searchin earnest for a new first name, settling at last on Aaralyn. It was airy andlight. She found a definition for the name: "like a song."This, she thought, fit everything she was trying to be.She had never seen herself as her father's daughter. For all their blood ties,for the way she carries her father's high forehead and his penchant forphilosophizing, there is little emotional connection between them. No trueaffection and, oddly, no real hate. To Aaralyn, there is nothing remarkableabout this. He was always so distant, she says, so detached, so uninterested inbeing a father to her or any of his children. They grew up calling him Jim orRev, but never Dad.As a result, father and daughter remained civil even after the intent ofAaralyn's taped phone call became clear on a spring day in 2007, when Bevel wasextradited from Eutaw, Ala., to Leesburg to face trial for unlawful fornication.He'd been to Aaralyn's house once since then. He'd stopped by so that hiscurrent wife, Erica Bevel, could ask Aaralyn if the allegations she was makingagainst her father were true. Aaralyn, who'd previously given Erica atypewritten affidavit detailing the allegations, patiently repeated them.Her father, she says, didn't appear uncomfortable being in her house or seeingher. He seemed to regard the charges that she'd brought against him as aphilosophical exercise. If any of his children felt an injustice had beencommitted against them, they should fight it, he'd always told them. Now thatone of them had done just that, he appeared to admire it on some level."I think mainly, in his philosophy, emotions are not an element to beexpressed," Aaralyn says. "Emotions were the lower self." His refusal to engagein anything other than an intellectual basis, she says, is "probably why he'sbeen able to do some of the things he's done, because he's been pretty muchemotionally detached. Whether it's violating his children or going straight upto confront Bull Connor [the much feared Birmingham police commissioner in1963], just emotionally detached and looking at it from a strategic, scientifickind of way. And it's the way he's always been. It's why he's never beenfatherly and want to know his kid and hold his baby."AS A LITTLE GIRL, SHE HAD WHAT SHE CALLS HER "TRAUMA ROOM." It was in hergrandparents' duplex on the South Side of Chicago. This is where her mother,Helen Bevel, a large, smiling woman, had moved from Cleveland with the fivechildren she'd had with James. Sometimes Bevel would visit, though he did notlive with them. He ran a program to help inner-city youth and lived in anapartment many blocks away.The trauma room wasn't much of a room, but rather a small den just inside thefront door that her mother had turned into a bedroom for Aaralyn. There was nodoor on the trauma room; she was exposed, open to the world that walked in thefront door.At first, Aaralyn says, she didn't understand the things her father was doingwhen he sometimes slipped into the house at night and walked straight into herroom. He slid onto her bed fondling her, kissing her, rubbing himself againsther. No one else in her family, not her mother, brothers, sisters orgrandparents, said anything. None of them seemed to know. For a time, sheassumed it was just something fathers did with their daughters.She believed this until she was 9 and was home from school one day watching "TheOprah Winfrey Show." Suddenly, there was a girl just about her age on thescreen, and the girl was telling a story just like hers -- about her own traumaroom, about a father who slipped into her bed and did the same things as her ownfather. It was as if Aaralyn's life were playing out on "Oprah." At the show'send, Winfrey looked into the camera and said that if there were any girls outthere watching who had similar stories, they needed to tell someone.So, Aaralyn did. She wrote a letter to her mother telling her everything andplaced it under her pillow. And after her mother read the letter, Aaralyn says,Helen Bevel looked at her and said: "You spelled molest wrong."For years, Helen said she couldn't remember making that remark, though sheacknowledges now that she probably did. She does recall setting up a meetingwith her mother and all the women who, like her, followed Bevel from city tocity and believed in the ideas he advocated, to discuss Aaralyn's allegations.This was how Bevel had taught her to deal with problems. She asked Aaralyn tostand before the women and tell them what she had written in the letter.Aaralyn, who remembers being suddenly filled with the thought that she did notwant her grandmother to know, was silent.Helen, now 57, says now that she couldn't comprehend what the letter was tellingher. She had never been exposed to incest and found it impossible to believe itwas happening to her daughter. She says neither she nor Aaralyn "had thelanguage" to deal with the issue.All Aaralyn knew was that she had confided in her mother and had been dismissed.From then on, she no longer trusted her parents: not her father, who she nowknew had done horrible things to her, and certainly not her mother who, shedecided, was going to allow it to happen. She learned she would be on her own.Not long after, Aaralyn came home from school one day to find her father insidethe house. Nobody else was around. Now that she understood what had happened inthe trauma room, she was frightened of him. In terror, she threw down her bagand ran. Her father pursued her. She dove under a bed, shrieking for him to goaway. After a time, the house grew quiet.Then suddenly he was in the room. She could hear him stomping across the floor,could see his feet from under the bed. That's when she saw the broom. It was abig brown broom with enormous strands of straw. And he shoved it under the bed,sweeping her into the open. The straws scratched her arms, her face."I couldn't wrap my arms around how he took a broom and swept a child out," shesays. "Honestly, I don't remember what happened next. I just shut down . . .After that, I was just a comatose person. I couldn't really deal. It wasserious. But the things that happened after that were probably the same."OF THE CHARISMATIC MINISTERS WHO LED THE CIVIL RIGHTS MOVEMENT, James Bevelcould preach with the best of them. Even Ralph Abernathy. Even FredShuttlesworth. Even Martin Luther King Jr. Taylor Branch, who has written one ofthe most comprehensive histories of the movement, used to keep tapes of Bevelspeaking in church and loved to listen to them, awed by the power of his words."He was a spitfire preacher, incredibly entertaining," says Branch, the PulitzerPrize-winning author of Parting the Waters: America in the King Years, the firstof his trilogy on the civil rights movement.Author David Halberstam also marveled at Bevel's passion in his 1998 book, TheChildren, describing "the sheer intensity of the man, the originality and forceof mind when Bevel focused on one person."As a result of those gifts, Bevel rose fast in the movement's early years.Though he was slight of build, no more than 5-foot-7, he possessed an unyieldingwill that drove the movement at crucial moments. When the push to endsegregation stalled in Birmingham in 1963, it was Bevel who conceived a plan touse teenagers in a peaceful march against the forces of Connor, one of theSouth's most ardent segregationists. He envisioned wave upon wave of youngpeople being arrested until the jails were so filled with black children thatthe rest of the country would have to take notice.King was hesitant about using children, but finally yielded to Bevel. And whenthe first teenagers spilled across Birmingham's Kelly Ingram Park that May andwere arrested, they were followed by a river of youthful protesters,overwhelming Connor's minions. Connor called on the fire depart-ment to bringwater cannons, which blasted the marchers across the ground like fallen leavesbeing blown from a sidewalk. And when still more children came, the policebrought out dogs. The photographs of children being knocked to the ground withwater cannons and chased by police dogs shocked the nation. Within weeks,Birmingham was on its way to desegregation.Two years later, as Bevel and his first wife, Diane Nash, fought to registerblack voters in Alabama, King again held back, unsure if the time was right toconfront Gov. George Wallace. But after a black man named Jimmie Lee Jackson wasshot by police in Marion and left to die, Bevel was too enraged to listen toKing's words of caution."He wanted to do something dramatic," Branch says. Bevel wanted to lead a marchfrom Selma, near where Jackson was killed, to Montgomery, the state capital,about 50 miles away, then dump Jackson's body in Wallace's office.King eventually agreed to a march from Selma to Montgomery, a walk that wouldwind through some of Alabama's most racist territory and end at the capitolbuilding. Even after King granted permission, he continued to plead with Bevelto wait, Branch says. Bevel pushed ahead anyway. But before the marchers couldleave Selma, they were confronted by state troopers on the Edmund Pettus Bridgeand beaten in a now famous scene that again stunned much of the country. Theensuing outrage led to two more Selma-Montgomery marches and to the passage ofthe landmark Voting Rights Act of 1965, outlawing the discriminatory practicesthat had disenfranchised black voters.And yet as vital as Birmingham and Selma were to the movement and as significanta role as Bevel played in making these eventshappen, his behavior worried some of his colleagues, says Andrew Young, a Kinglieu-tenant who later became mayor of Atlanta. They feared that Bevel wasunstable.Young recalls Bevel approaching him not long after the first Selma march with astrange story. Bevel said he had been doing laundry one night when Jesussuddenly appeared, sat down on the washing machine and told the young preacherthat he needed to help stop the Vietnam War. "There is no doubt he marched tothe tune of a different drummer," Young says.King didn't always know what to make of Bevel, Young says, but he valued Bevel'sfearlessness and creativity in the struggle for equal rights. "Dr. King used tosay we were all maladjusted," Young says, with a laugh. "He said you had to bemaladjusted to take on the whole social order as it was." Bevel remained aprominent leader in the movement until King's murder in 1968. He was standing inthe parking lot, just below the second-floor balcony of Memphis's LorraineMotel, when King was shot.In the assassination's chaotic aftermath, Bevel's behavior grew more erratic. Tothe consternation of civil rights leaders, he took up the case of King'sadmitted killer, James Earl Ray, going as far as to visit Ray in jail andproclaim his innocence. He called for Ray to be given a trial even though Rayhad already pleaded guilty. Two years later, according to Halberstam's book,Bevel went on a nonstop, three-day preaching binge that ended with Young takinghim to the psychiatric ward of an Atlanta hospital. Within days, Bevel waspushed out of King's Southern Christian Leadership Conference.Out of the hospital and gone from the movement, he moved around the country,trailed by followers who lived together in what his children describe ascommunes. He worked for a time with the Unification Church's Rev. Sun MyungMoon, ran unsuccessfully for Congress as a Republican in Illinois and, in 1992,was the running mate of perennial fringe presidential candidate Lyndon LaRoucheJr. In 1995, Bevel collaborated with Nation of Islam leader Louis Farrakhan onwhat became the Million Man March in Washington.Throughout the odd twists and turns of his career, Bevel advocated a philosophybuilt on what he describes as six "institutions" -- church, government,business, clinic, home, school -- that Aaralyn says he discovered by "decoding"the Lord's Prayer. He lists them constantly for people, connecting the wordswith a big figure eight. They are the basis for almost all of his currentteachings, including his beliefs about the "science" of sex and marriage. Hepreaches that there is a distinction between what he calls "romantic love" and"constitutional intimacy." The latter is the desired state in which sex is usedfor procreation and not pleasure. Anything else is "a pimp-whore" relationship.Fathers, he maintains, are the best ones to train or "sexually orientate" theirdaughters.When asked about his older brother, Charles Bevel, an actor and musician wholives in New Jersey, stumbles for a moment, trying to find the right words. Hehas so many thoughts on the subject, he says, that he typed them into a computera few years ago and the document rolled on for 30 single-spaced pages. He sayshis emotions about his brother "have roller-coastered from peaks of angertowards his arrogance to valleys of pity and compassion for his weakness andillness." He traces the problem to their childhood in Itta Bena, Miss., wherethey were two of 17 children born to a mother who left them bewildered sexually.Raped by her stepfather at age 13, she flew into rages at the mention ofanything sexual. Once, Charles remembers, she beat their 2-year-old brother soviolently with a leather strap when the child appeared to be rubbing himselfagainst a chair that she drew blood.Charles is convinced that the root of his brother's problems lies with theirmother. Never fully able to grasp her visceral reactions to sex, James threwhimself into sexual trysts with grown women when he was only 12 or 13, hisbrother says. "There are no emotional underpinnings with his relationships,"Charles says. Then again, there were few emotional underpinnings in their entirefamily, which Charles noticed as he grew into his teens and saw how otherfamilies hugged, spent time together and seemed connected to one another. Thiswas not the case for the Bevels. Their father was a sharecropper with aphilosophical bent who was more interested in ideas than people; their motherwas a woman who beat the slightest impure thought from their minds. James, itseemed to Charles, took something from each of them.GROWING UP, AARALYN ONLY REALLY KNEW HER IMMEDIATE BROTHERS AND SISTERS, theones Helen had with James Bevel. Bevel's other offspring might pass through herlife once every few years, but those sightings were brief, and few relationshipswere ever built. So, Aaralyn didn't know that her older half sister ChevaraOrrin, who lived in Memphis, had accused their father of molesting her one nightwhen she was 10. Or that Chevara's younger sister Bacardi Jackson, then 8, hadhad to take Chevara into the bathroom to wash the ejaculate off her leg, noteven understanding what it was. Nor did any of them know the things that hadhappened to other sisters, some of whom are still reluctant to share details.Bevel was challenged about his behavior a few times. When Bacardi was a studentat Yale Law School in 1996, she wrote her father a scorching letter, accusinghim of molesting Chevara. In response, he suggested that the three of them holda mock trial to see if his daughters could prove that he'd done anything wrong.Bacardi and Chevara decided to participate, but the "trial" fell apart whenBevel spent an hour challenging them on their definition of the word "rape."Charles Bevel also remembers questioning his brother about his behavior twice,once in the mid-1980s, after hearing Chevara and Bacardi's story, and later inthe mid-1990s, after hearing rumors about Aaralyn and one of her sisters. Eachtime, James Bevel thundered his denials.It wasn't until 2004, when Charles shared his suspicions with Douglass Bevel,the son of James and his first wife, fellow civil rights leader Diane Nash, thatthe children began to collectively confront their secrets. At the time, Douglasssays, he had just met Erica Bevel and his half sister. Immediately, Douglassloved the little girl. She had such bright eyes and laughed so easily. Now hebegan to worry: Had anything happened to her?He called Aaralyn, asked to visit and then bought a plane ticket to Washington.They met in her apartment in Silver Spring, where Aaralyn was living at thetime. Over the next few days, her story spilled out. Douglass called the othersisters and heard similar stories.Douglass told them about the sweet little girl living with Bevel. They had toget her out, he said. A series of conference calls were arranged that involved14 of Bevel's 16 children, along with Charles, Nash and Chevara and Bacardi'smother, Susanne Jackson. For many of the women, it was the first time they haddiscussed their abuse with other family members. The calls were emotional. Theydebated for weeks what to do about their little sister before deciding todirectly confront Bevel in Alabama. Bacardi, now a practicing attorney,suggested each sister write an affidavit detailing the abuse. Then, afterpresenting them to Bevel, they would insist that he and Erica relinquish custodyof their daughter to Erica's mother in New Jersey. They also wanted their fatherto promise to seek counseling.They chose a weekend and made arrangements to fly to Alabama, only to discoverthat they had picked the very night that Bevel was being honored with a plaqueat the National Voting Rights Museum & Institute, just feet away from the EdmundPettus Bridge. It was an awkward moment, but the children sat through theceremony.The next day, they presented their affidavits, challenging Bevel about hisincest as a group for the first time. He read the written accounts and thensaid, according to those present, "I don't contest these charges."They asked him to give up custody of their little sister. He refused. "You wouldhave needed a huge knife to cut through the tension in that room," Chevara says."Everyone was sobbing."Eventually, Bevel stood up, left the room and came back with a chalkboard. Itwas time for a lesson, he said. And he began drawing the familiar figure eightconnecting the six institutions: church, government, business . . .A few weeks later, they tried again, this time with Bernard Lafayette, one ofBevel's best friends from the civil rights movement, mediating the meeting.Lafayette says he was brokenhearted to hear about the allegations and wanted tobroker a resolution in which Bevel would seek help. "He had some psycho-logicalproblems. It's obvious," Lafayette says.When that attempt also failed, some of Bevel's children hired an attorney to tryto get their sister removed themselves. Not all the siblings agreed toparticipate.Douglass's sister Sherrylynn Bevel, who has spent a great deal of time workingon projects with her father, says she was uncomfortable with the anger beingexpressed by some of her sisters. "I became very concerned, concerned foreverybody in our family," Sherrylynn says, describing the operating motive as:"I want to hurt you, and I want to humiliate you. I couldn't work with anyonelike that."Even Aaralyn's brother Enoch Bevel, who lived with Aaralyn while he was in highschool and is now a student at Georgetown University, had reservations. He sayshe adored his father growing up and has fond memories of the meals his fathercooked for him and the Frisbee games they played. He still finds it hard toreconcile the hero of Birmingham and Selma with the man accused of molesting hissister.But Bacardi, Chevara and some of Bevel's other daughters refused to back down.To bolster their custody petition, they began researching where they could filecharges of their own against Bevel. But each state they approached had a statuteof limi-tations for felonies such as child molestation. Then someone discoveredVirginia had no such restrictions, and they turned to Aaralyn. She would have tobe the one to file charges and confront their father in court.Bacardi prepared her for what would follow: the testimony she would have togive, the embarrassing questions that would be asked. She might be attacked,scorned, perhaps even derided as a traitor to her race. Aaralyn thought aboutall those things and then shrugged. She had already endured far worse. Sheneeded to do this for her little sister, she says she decided.Before she went to the police, she took a long hike with a friend -- someone shehad confided in about her father -- to go over the story, to be sure she couldrepeat it in an orderly fashion. Then she drove to the station in Leesburg.AARALYN'S CHILDHOOD WAS A BLUR OF CITIES. For years, her mother followed Bevelaround the country, from Cleveland to Chicago to Washington, to Omaha andMemphis, taking her children with her.Aaralyn says she grew up with very little adult supervision. In Washington, sheremembers, she and her mother stayed in an apartment with Georgetown students.She told the students she was a senior in high school so that she could attendtheir parties. She was 12. In Memphis, at 14, she dated both a drug dealer and afootball player who had just been picked in the NFL draft. She says she smokedpot and drank constantly. By the middle of high school, she considered herselfan alcoholic.Helen Bevel remembers her daughter being impossible to control at that time.Aaralyn recalls her mother as oblivious to what was going on. Then, suddenly,they were no longer welcome at the Memphis house where they'd been staying, andHelen told the children they had to find other places to live. With nowhere elseto go, Aaralyn chose to move in with her father in Leesburg, which is where he'dmoved to work with LaRouche.Despite what had happened in Chicago, this seemed like the best idea. It hadbeen years since the day Bevel had come after her with a broom. She was older,more aware, had been with men. She was smarter. Plus, the apartment promisedstability, which she desperately wanted after so many years of moving from cityto city, house to house. When she arrived, they talked: father and daughter. Sheasked him why he had touched her, and he told her he had been abused as a childhimself. He apologized.Then it started happening again."I look back, and I see I fully didn't understand, I was just really a kid,"Aaralyn says. "I thought I was older, and I thought I was more mature, and I hadall this exposure and could handle things. Now I see I wasn't able to deal withhim and his manipulation and stuff. He started playing on this idea [that]because I cared about him -- I didn't hate him or anything -- that 'Oh I needyou,' and I'm the only person who can understand him . . ."And the abuse started up again on the basis of I was helping get rid of thepains he had in his heart. He had all these weird habits, screaming at night,all because of the pains in his heart, the trauma from when he was being abused.And I bought it wholesale."In the summer of 1993, her sister Bacardi came to Washington as part of aninternship and stopped by the apartment for a visit. Bevel told her that Aaralynloved to write poetry and asked Aaralyn to read one of her poems. Aaralynfetched her notebook and began to read a morose poem about a tear. As Bacardilistened, she was struck by the sadness she saw in her sister. She wishes nowthat she had asked questions. But her life was consumed with school, herinternship and her own anger with their father. She left it alone."On reflection, she was going through a lot with him," Bacardi says. "He wasbeing her tormentor, and he was also being a monster. She is the daughter ofJames Bevel the most. She experienced him the most and perceived him as themonster the most."The case against Bevel rested on a single day in the Leesburg apartment. Told incourt, it was more than a single day, of course. It was something that had beenbuilding, from the trauma room to the broom under the bed, to the howls ofanguish, to the manipulative pleas to his daughter, James plus an e, that onlyshe could make him right again if she would do this one little thing for him: ifshe would let him penetrate her as a husband would do his wife. He read from theBible. He told her that Lot slept with his daughters. He told her that Godwanted this. After weeks of his persuasion, she finally relented.When it was done, he sent her to the bathroom where he had already assembled adouche, an old-fashioned one, she recalls, a big red bag with tubes. He told hershe had to use it, she had to clean herself out. Once she had, she realized howduped she had been."It was premeditated," Aaralyn says with disgust. "It was him knowing exactlywhat he was going to do."On the tape made in the Leesburg police station, she asked her father aboutthis:Aaralyn: "I mean what was the motivation behind you, you know, having sex withme and then, you know, rushing me up to go and douche? What was the motivationbehind that?"It took him a moment to answer.Bevel: "Because I had no interest in getting you pregnant."LAST SUMMER, A FEW WEEKS AFTER HIS ARREST, Bevel appeared on a Monday morning atthe Loudoun County Courthouse to request a court-appointed attorney. He cast aregal figure as he ascended the stairs to the second floor in a black minister'sshirt and jacket with an African prince's hat on his head. His beard looked evengrayer in the morning light.Despite having just turned down an interview request at the end of the previousweek -- something he would repeatedly do, always citing his lawyer's advice evenwhen he didn't appear to have a lawyer -- he nonetheless was delighted to berecognized and immediately led a reporter into the courtroom and sat down on abench.He talked about Tolstoy and Gandhi. He talked about Myles Horton, the educatorwho mentored King and Rosa Parks, and said this was the man who had introducedhim to nonviolence.After he'd talked for a while, Bevel was asked why he would request a publicdefender for such an important case. He waved his hand. "You only need anexpensive lawyer if you are trying to stay out of jail," he said.But wouldn't that be the point? He was, after all, facing the real possibilityof going to prison for the rest of his life. Wouldn't an attorney with moretime, more staff to work up the best defense possible be better than someone whois burdened all day by pleading out petty robbery cases?He shook his head."Have you ever been to jail?" he asked. "Jail isn't that bad; it's just a placewith a lot of guys who need educating."Then he offered that he welcomed a trial. There are many kinds of sex, he said,and "if I'm unable to convince a jury of my peers of that, then I deserve to goto jail."ON A MARCH NIGHT IN 1995, Aaralyn sat outside a motel in Selma and wondered howshe should kill herself. She had a friend back in Virginia with a guncollection. Maybe she could slip into his house when he was not around, pull agun out of its case and fire a bullet into her skull. A more likely possibilitywas to step out into the middle of the street just as a truck came barrelinginto town. However she did it, it had to be quick. It had to be fatal.Earlier that day, at a celebration for the 30th anniversary of the march fromSelma to Montgomery, she'd met Selma's mayor, Joseph Smitherman, who had alsobeen the mayor in 1965. She was standing with her father when the oldadversaries came face to face. The mayor told her that of all the civil rightsleaders, her father had scared them the most, far more than King. It wassupposed to be a compliment, but his words sent a chill through Aaralyn. Untilthat moment, she'd always thought of her father as crazy, a genius with mentalproblems. Then, standing with the mayor, he seemed to her like something else.Something sinister.She had nowhere to go. Her mother's home in Chicago, where she'd returned soonafter that day in the Leesburg apartment, was no longer an option. Theneighborhood where Helen lived was violent. One time, a group of young men hadjumped Aaralyn, pushed her to the ground and beaten her with their fists.Afterward, she'd returned to Leesburg out of desperation. But in Virginia, shehad to fend off her father's sexual advances. There seemed no way out.Yet in that very moment of despair, Aaralyn says, a man appeared outside themotel where she was sitting. She does not know what he was doing in Selma oreven who he was, just a white man who said he was from the Washington area. Hesaw the gloom in her face and told her he had a daughter about the same age asshe was. Aaralyn was fortunate, he said. Her life still stretched out beforeher. Though she didn't tell him about her father, she took comfort in hisconcern for her. She thinks he saved her that night, this man whose name shenever learned. She did not run in front of a truck or go in search of a gun.Instead she went to bed and dreamed of her escape.It came in the strangest of places: in western Pennsylvania on the grounds of apacifist religious community known as the Bruderhof. She moved there a fewmonths after the Selma celebration when she met several Bruderhof members at oneof her father's peace events in Philadelphia. For a time, it was the perfectplace to reinvent herself.The Bruderhof was a pacifist community founded in Germany. Its members fled tothe United States after refusing to fight for Hitler's army. It was a calmplace, Aaralyn says, and though the group was nearly all white, she didn't mind.She took on the typical role of an unmarried woman in the Bruderhof, serving asa sort of nanny for a large family. The tensions of the previous yearsdisappeared the first night when she stood outside and stared into a sky ofstars."It's like you are in this horrible place in your mind . . . and you are in thissituation where you see no way out at all, no light at the end of the tunnel,and then there is a way out," Aaralyn remembers. "It's this instant where yousay, 'Whoaaa, this works!' . . . It was a whole new world, a different life."When she left the Bruderhof more than a year later, so much of the past hadbecome a distant memory, she says. She even moved back to the Leesburgapartment. Her father wasn't there. He was off with another group, pursuing somenew cause. In a whirlwind, things happened. She moved to Washington, found a jobas a waitress in a bar, fell in love with one of her co-workers. They married,moved to the Maryland suburbs and had a baby boy. And then, as the normalarguments of marriage became daily occurrences, they fell out of love anddivorced.That's when she met Nathaniel. And, like everything else in her life, fallingfor him seemed so incongruous. Nathaniel Mills was an elite speed skater who'dmade three U.S. Olympic teams. Afterward, he'd sailed through Georgetown LawSchool, passing the D.C. bar on his first try. But instead of practicing law, hewanted to teach peace education. For a while, Aaralyn says, they were justfriends. She trusted him enough to tell him about her father, a story she almostnever shared with anyone outside her family.Nathaniel was working as a teacher and running a skating club forunderprivileged children in Southeast Washington. In the summer of 2006, he wasasked to go to Abu Dhabi to teach peace education to the royal family of theUnited Arab Emirates. While he was gone, he needed someone to run an event forhis skating club that featured the speed skating star of the 2006 Olympics,Shani Davis. Aaralyn agreed to help. And somewhere in the planning for the Davisappearance, they fell for each other. Neither can really explain it. Aaralyncalls it "a spark." One day, while in the United Arab Emirates, Nathaniel senther an e-mail with the words "We are marrying." She immediately replied, "Yes!"Two months later, they were wed. Last month, they had their first childtogether, a little girl. They called her Athena. The Greek goddess of wisdom,war, the arts, industry, skill and justice.TWO WEEKS AFTER GIVING BIRTH, Aaralyn, sits on the witness chair in a LoudounCounty Circuit courtroom and tells her story. She talks about the nights inChicago, the letter to her mother, the broom under the bed and, finally, the dayin the apartment in Leesburg. She describes all this in the same soft, detachedvoice that she has told it in the past. Several times, the judge instructs herto lean into the microphone so the jury can hear her. Prosecutor Nicole Wittmannwill say later that Aaralyn is one of the best witnesses she has ever had in acase like this.And when she is done, Aaralyn steps down and waits in the hallway outside withher baby and seven family members for a verdict.Her father watches her testify with an expressionless gaze, using a pen to tracethe outlines of his beard over and over again. But when Wittmann plays the tapeof Aaralyn's phone call, and the jury listens for an hour and a half to Bevel'sraging and swearing, Wittmann steals a few glances at the defendant. He appearsto be smiling.Bevel spends much of his day on the stand explaining his unconventional views onsex and education. He acknowledges being what he calls a recovering sex addict.But he denies that he ever penetrated Aaralyn and suggests that he is the victimof a conspiracy. "Someone has plotted to destroy my reputation, my being," hetells the jury.In the end, he cannot escape his own words on the tape. His comment about notwanting to get Aaralyn pregnant dangles in the air. After only three hours ofdeliberation, the jury finds James Bevel guilty of unlawful fornication.In those first few moments after her father's conviction, Aaralyn is called backto the stand to describe the impact of Bevel's crime before the jury hands downits sentence. And the woman whose voice has never wavered, who has never seemedangry or sad, who has never expressed hate toward her father, does something shehas never done in telling her story.She sobs.Her shoulders rock. She dabs at the tears that roll from beneath her glasses.She says that all she wants now is to be a good mother and wife. "The hardestpart is I love my father, and I wish he loved me as much as I love him and hadthe humility to put some effort into understanding that."Bevel, who is about to be sentenced to 15 years, simply stares at the daughterwho is sending him to prison. It is as if she is a stranger. Not his child atall.Les Carpenter is a writer for The Post Sports section. He can be reached atcarpenterl@washpost.com He will be fielding questions and comments about thisarticle Tuesday at noon at washingtonpost.com/liveonline.