If this is the new, muscular NCAA, let me be the first to say I like it. And Ihope this won't be the last time we see the organization many - including me -had all but given up on for having barely a bark and a nearly toothless biteflex its collective biceps and deliver a knockout blow.That's certainly what happened to Penn State on Mondaywhen the NCAA meted outsanctions that arguably have as much bite as what many feared: the deathpenalty.Penn State - for allowing its football program to run roughshod over its commonsense, the law and finally basic human decency - will lose 20 scholarships andbe banned from postseason play for four years. It will be fined $60 million,which will be used to establish an endowment to help the victims of child sexualabuse around the country (not just the victims of Jerry Sandusky, who are stillfree to sue the school). It set up an ethical oversight board and reserved theright to further punish anyone involved with the program once the dust settlesfrom the current charges.And perhaps most surprising, it vacated all of the Nittany Lions' victories from1998 to 2011. If the school hadn't removed Joe Paterno's statue Sunday, it mighthave fallen over from shock.The sanctions are tough, but what is really striking is that they were handeddown by NCAA President Mark Emmert without a prior hearing by the Committee onInfractions - because Penn State hasn't broken NCAA rules.I'm as critical as anyone of the NCAA - I was convinced they wouldn't takedecisive action, and I was wrong - but it's hard to fault them for not havinganticipated the need for rules such as: "A coach shall not use his position tolure children to the school and assault them" or "A coach shall not use hispower to cover up the sexual abuse of children by anyone in his employ."That kind of thing usually falls under "common sense" for most of us - butapparently not for all. So Emmert took the unprecedented step of wielding whatsome might call autocratic authority. There's a kind of poetic justice in that.Now comes the time to hear that the sanctions aren't fair to the currentplayers. Of course they aren't. Sanctions seldom punish the people who causedthe fracas. Ohio State got slapped, but Jim Tressel and Terrelle Pryor weren'taround to feel the sting. This is not the last time life will be unfair to thesekids, sadly. But they can transfer to other schools and play immediately, orstay at Penn State and play, or stay at Penn State on full scholarship and electnot to play. In other words, they have choices, something Sandusky's victimsquite palpably did not have.The community will also suffer. But the deification of the Penn State footballprogram was not limited to campus. The results were far-reaching. The birthmother of Sandusky's adopted son Matt was one of the people who sensed somethingwas wrong with Sandusky. But she wasn't an important member of the community,not compared to an assistant coach at Penn State. He was automatically believedand trusted because he wore a whistle around his neck. How sad is that?Even the staunchest Penn State alumni have been rocked by trial testimony and bythe revelations of the 162-page Freeh report released July 12. In it are e-mailsthat make plain that university officials were aware of Sandusky's actions andlooked the other way. And that includes Paterno. Penn State's Board of Trusteeshired former FBI director Louis Freeh to compile the report, and the schoolannounced it accepted the findings. But the school failed to do anything topunish, curtail or in any way diminish the football program, despite the factthat the football program and the reverence with which it was treated created anicon so powerful that a statue was erected to him long before his death inJanuary.That program eventually was seen as untouchable, so much so that when Sandusky'shorrible actions were made known to people at the highest levels of theuniversity, instead of taking action, they consulted Paterno.Why? In what way should Paterno have had any say in what was a criminal matter?Paterno, too, did nothing. Former athletic director Tim Curley and retired vicepresident Gary Schultz have been charged with perjury for lying to the grandjury investigating charges against Sandusky. Former president Graham Spanier hasnot been charged with anything, for whatever reason.Paterno defenders will haul out the tired argument that he is not as much toblame as others in the case. The problem is this: There is no scale to measuresuch blame. He knew. He did nothing. Oh, I'm sorry, he told Sandusky not toshower with young boys any more. The attempt to make Paterno a victim in thisdreadful scandal is becoming tiresome. He is not a victim. The victims were thechildren. Period. End of story. That clearly was the NCAA's thought in vacatingall those victories.The statue was the 900-pound elephant in the room, and it wasn't helped by thefact that behind it were inscriptions that called Paterno a "humanitarian" -eerily echoing the idea expressed in the Freeh report that Sandusky needed to betreated humanely even after it was known that he was a pedophile - and a quotefrom Paterno that in part said "I hope they write I made Penn State a betterplace . . ." How could the school leave the statue in place with those wordsbehind it?But the statue is a red herring on this day. The issue is the NCAA's newfoundmuscle, and the mark it has left on Penn State - and truthfully, there willnever be another situation like this, so perhaps there will never be a needagain for this much muscle. But if the NCAA would handle all violations withstrong sanctions, tough language and an understanding that the public at largeis losing faith in a sport with a lot of warts, then maybe it can be redeemedalong with Penn State. I hope so, in both cases.hamiltont@washpost.comFor previous columns by Tracee Hamilton, visit washingtonpost.com/hamilton.More college sports coverage:NCAA comes down hard on Penn StateWise: Why are they still allowed to play?NCAA's sanctions against Penn StateFor players, questions about their own futuresOn Faith: A bomb instead of a scalpelACC coaches react to Penn State sanctionshttp://www.washingtonpost.com/blogs/nationals-journal/post/jesus-flores-receiving-treatment-for-sore-back-sandy-leon-to-play/2012/07/22/gJQAjuzX2W_blog.htmlHard Hits: Time to fix thingshttp://www.washingtonpost.com/blogs/hard-hits/post/penn-state-community-must-now-start-to-fix-what-went-wrong/2012/07/23/gJQADuqg4W_blog.htmlPoll: Weigh in on the penaltiesOn Leadership: O'Brien's tough roadVideo: NCAA hands down sanctionshttp://www.washingtonpost.com/blogs/nationals-journal/post/jesus-flores-receiving-treatment-for-sore-back-sandy-leon-to-play/2012/07/22/gJQAjuzX2W_blog.htmlPaterno family: A 'panickedresponse'