She appeared to be in her early twenties, pretty, with wavy dark hair and thetaut body of an athlete. Naked, save for a top yanked up to expose her breasts,and white knee-high stockings still primly in place. Her jeans, purse and redshoes lay next to her, and something about the orderly way they were left in thedead winter leaves made investigators believe she must have removed themherself. From the looks of it, she had briefly escaped and was running away fromher killer, running blindly through the sticker bushes when he shot hermidstride, dragged her back to a clearing, then raped her.The search for evidence began with detectives pacing a mile in either directionon Hunter Mill Road, their eyes scouring asphalt and bramble, storm drains, theunyielding Virginia clay, for whatever a killer might have left behind. Acigarette butt, a gum wrapper, thread from a snagged sock, buttons ripped from ashirt, a wallet lost in haste or struggle. Sometimes they got lucky that way.But on this December morning, nothing.Murder, uncommon in Fairfax County, was rarer still in the bosky cul-de-sacs ofReston, and three dozen cops quickly swarmed the neighborhood. One woman thoughtshe had heard gunshots while out for a walk the night before, yes, three or fourin a row, then two more an hour and a half later, after she was back inside.Probably hunters, she had decided. They were known to poach the white-taileddeer that foraged across the street, in the woods where crime scene techniciansnow zipped the beautiful girl into a body bag.Police probed the ground with metal detectors and unleashed search dogs. Theysent up a helicopter for an aerial survey. They began cordoning off the crimescene with yellow police tape, which is when they came across the second body,that of a strapping young man with bright red hair. He was fully clothed. Hiswallet was missing, but the killer hadn't bothered with the braided gold chainaround his neck. He had been forced to kneel, then shot from behind, asingle-round execution. That must have been when the girl bolted, the detectivesspeculated.All they had to go on was this: Jane Doe, John Doe. No identification, nomotive, no weapon, no car, no trail. The killer knew what he was doing, theysurmised. The only thing he left behind was his own DNA. It was duly processed,analyzed and stored in the Fairfax County Police property room, a genetic mapthat led nowhere for 12 years."Warren, honey, do you want me to iron that shirt for you?" Warren Fulton IIIwas 22 years old, about to graduate from George Washington University, butJackie Fulton still fussed after her older son. It was Saturday, and Warren hada date that night. He unbuttoned his plaid flannel shirt and handed it to hismother.They lived in Vienna, a few blocks from the Dunn Loring Metro, in this place atthis time purely by the grace of God. The Fultons were conservative Christianswhose lives were a spiritual crusade charted by the Salvation Army. Both Jackieand her husband, Warren II -- like his own father before him -- were ordainedministers and high-ranking officers in the religious organization. The familymoved often, but the two Fulton sons thrived no matter how many times they weretransplanted. Now Stewart, their younger son, was contemplating medical schoolwhile Warren was finishing his English degree and hoping to be recruited by theCincinnati Reds. He was captain of GW's baseball team, a tribute as much to hispersonality as his .367 batting average and gift for stealing bases.Warren lived in the finished basement of his parents' house, but kept a collegesenior's erratic schedule, often bunking with buddies who had an apartment justoff-campus. He and his best friend, Dan Gutstein, could spend hours shootingdarts or deconstructing sonnets. They daydreamed about bumming around the worldtogether.On Saturday morning, December 3, 1988, Warren had worked out early with thebaseball team, then come home for breakfast with his folks. The Salvation Armywas planning a special holiday service the next day, and the Fultons weredecorating small styrofoam crosses to hang on the church's Christmas tree.Jackie teased her son about being stingy with his glitter as he painstakinglyglued gold spangles one by one with his big, freckled hands. Don't push yourluck, he said, laughing.Later that day, Warren asked his father to help him shop for dress shoes, thengrabbed a quick nap before showering and getting dressed for his night out.Rachael Raver was coming to the house for dinner, then they planned to stop by aparty in Arlington before hooking up with friends for drinks at Mister Days inthe District. Jackie had a pot roast simmering in the crockpot. They called it"baseball stew" because they usually ate it on game nights. It was Warren'sfavorite dish.Supper that night was convivial, and the Fultons were delighted that Rachaelwanted to join them for the tree-decorating service the next morning. Rachaelwas the youngest of four children, the cute little sister everyone adored. Shewas still close to her parents back home in Yorktown Heights, a WestchesterCounty hamlet about an hour outside New York City. Rachael had graduated from GWsix months earlier with a degree in education, but a disappointing stint as astudent teacher had convinced her to look at other career options. Now she wasdoing secretarial work for the American Council on Education and planning toapply for law school. Piles of books already filled the back of the brown ToyotaCorolla her mother had just handed down to her, along with a towering box ofjunk she had salvaged from the family attic.Rachael and Warren had been dating for three months, since meeting at a bar thatwas a favorite hangout for GW jocks. Like Warren, Rachael was 22, athletic andoutgoing, a wholesome preppy who had played college soccer until sidelined by aknee injury. She had a terrific smile, charm to spare, and a weakness forredheaded Irish boys. Warren was likewise smitten. She soon became his firstlover, a delicious secret neither of them revealed to their strait-lacedfamilies. He wrote her poems. She called her mother at work for a chicken recipeto make a romantic dinner.When they didn't come home that Saturday night, and were nowhere to be seenSunday, friends and family members joked that they must have eloped; thealternatives were too horrible to consider. Rachael and Warren were bothcreatures of habit, predictable and responsible. Friends saw them leave the D.C.bar shortly after midnight. Rachael had nursed a few beers, but Warren wasstone-cold sober. The last anyone knew, he planned to drop Rachael off at herplace in Alexandria, take her car home to Vienna, then pick her up for churchthe next day.On Sunday morning, the Fultons woke up to find that Warren hadn't come home.When he didn't show up at church, they began to worry and started callingaround. None of his friends had seen him. By Sunday night, Dan Gutstein wasconvinced something was wrong, too. Warren always crashed on his couch Sundaynights; the baseball team trained early Monday morning, and he never missed it.The Ravers hadn't heard from Rachael, either. Her big sister Deidre calledSunday night, but the phone just rang and rang.By Monday morning, concern hardened into panic. Rachael missed work. Warrenwasn't at school. "Warren is dead," Jackie told her husband with dull certainty.He went to District police to file a missing persons report, and was given thebrushoff: They hadn't been gone the requisite 48 hours, and it wasn't theirjurisdiction, anyway, because Warren and Rachael lived in Virginia. Fairfaxpolice were more sympathetic, putting out a bulletin and urging the families tostart calling hospitals. The Ravers made plans to drive to Virginia and organizea search. They would check every roadside, every bridge, for some sign of theCorolla. An accident, there must have been an accident.On Tuesday morning, a caretaker inspecting an old Reston farm earmarked fordevelopment discovered the first body, and police, the second.The Ravers were en route to Virginia and couldn't be reached. Warren's fathergot a call from a Fairfax detective. Could he come to Fairfax Hospitalimmediately? A body had just been brought to the morgue. Red hair and a flannelshirt.An aunt of Rachael's who lived in Bethesda was driving to work when she heard areport on her car radio about two bodies found in Reston. She called police, whomatched Rachael's name to a business card found in Warren's pocket. The Raversarrived in town late that afternoon, primed for a search that was already toolate. Veronica Raver screamed and began pounding the wall when told that heryoungest child was dead. Rachael's father, Norm, stumbled around in blind rage.Investigators initially suspected that carjacking was the motive behind theRaver-Fulton case, though a nine-year-old Corolla hardly seemed worth thetrouble. The rape was considered a crime of opportunity; the double murder themost efficient disposal of witnesses. Police theorized that the couple had beenabducted in D.C. and forced to drive to Reston, 40 minutes and two toll boothsaway, because the killer knew the area and wanted the isolation of Hunter MillRoad. The FBI offered a psychological profile suggesting a career criminal.For the next month, Rachael's family searched for her missing car, followingevery brown Corolla they spotted, even once trailing a gray-haired grannypulling into a B. Altman's parking lot. They checked every turnoff and rest stopon the New Jersey Turnpike. Then, six weeks after Rachael was buried, herparents received a $ 70 summons from New York City police in the mail. TheCorolla was parked on the wrong side of a street in Jamaica, Queens. It had beenticketed the morning after the murder -- and several times since then.Detectives hurried up from Fairfax County to the drug-riddled streets of Jamaicaand found a burned hulk filled with trash. They fog-bombed the car withchemicals and used laser technology to lift fingerprints. A computer checked thelatents against more than 100,000 known suspects in a matter of minutes.Nothing.The two shattered families had little contact with each other. Shortly after themurders, Rachael's father had telephoned the Fultons twice, barely coherent,ranting in his grief that Warren should have protected Rachael. The Fultons leftVienna a few weeks after Warren was slain. God had called them to serve inAtlanta. They laid their son to rest there in a Salvation Army cemetery and toldthemselves that Warren had been promoted to glory. Media attention petered outas fresh tragedy became stale news with no promising leads to follow. Thefamilies embarked on their emotional journeys in opposite directions, theFultons not wanting to dwell on the murder, the Ravers not able to stop.Rachael's mother and her older sister Deidre became obsessed. Deidre recruitedthe help of recovering addicts from a local rehab center to join her as sheblanketed the neighborhood where the Corolla was found with leaflets offering a$ 10,000 reward for information. A hair recovered from Rachael's body indicatedthat the killer was black, but there was no description beyond that. Deidrehand-delivered fliers to dozens of police precincts in New York and introducedherself to the homicide detectives. Every rape-murder in the newspaper or on TVbecame a potential link to Rachael's killer. When another Northern Virginiamurder made it onto "Unsolved Mysteries" six months after Rachael's death, hermother was instantly on the phone to Deidre. This sounds like Rachael's!Like Rachael, Veronica Jefferson was young and beautiful, but she was black, notwhite, and she was alone, not with a boyfriend, and she was raped before she wasshot, not after, and she was murdered in Arlington, not Fairfax, and her carwasn't stolen. Police had reason to believe she might have known her killer; itwas likely a date rape.One thing the two cases did seem to have in common was the promise of DNAevidence left behind. But in 1989, the science was still in its infancy, andwhile its potential as a crime-solving tool was recognized, it was far fromrealized. Someday, there would be a nationwide databank capable of checking opencases like the murders of Rachael Raver, Warren Fulton and Veronica Jeffersonagainst the DNA of convicted criminals. Likewise, crime scenes could be comparedto one another based on DNA evidence, linking them in a matter of seconds.Someday, scientists and law enforcement both believed, computers would be ableto instantly match crimes and criminals all across the country.But for now, what they had amounted to a master key with no door.The case that had caught Veronica Raver's attention on "Unsolved Mysteries" infact had happened seven months before Rachael and Warren were killed, and 15miles away. Fairfax and Arlington police briefly compared notes, but saw nopattern.Veronica Lynn Jefferson -- Tina to her family and friends -- had gone to visit acousin in Maryland on the evening of May 10, 1988. She stopped off at theall-night Giant in Baileys Crossroads on her way home to the apartment sheshared with two girlfriends a few blocks away on Columbia Pike. Withcharacteristic caution, Tina parked her red Camaro with the vanity licenseplates near the front of the store. Inside, she picked up the staples of a23-year-old single woman: microwave popcorn, sliced turkey breast, a carton ofice cream, bananas, shampoo. The receipt read 9:30 p.m.Doug Taylor saw the Camaro, and Tina, maybe half an hour later. Taylor was adeputy sheriff who worked central booking at the Arlington County jail. He hatedthe job, but it paid his tuition. He was studying computers. On his way to workthis spring night, he was stopped at the busy intersection of Carlin SpringsRoad and Columbia Pike when the lights from an oncoming car caught him in theface. Turn off your brights. The car, a flashy red Camaro, came up over the curbas it made a right turn -- not just clipping it, either. Taylor fell in behind.The car was moving too slowly, weaving slightly. This guy's gotta be drunk,Taylor thought. He could see a man slouching in the driver's seat, one hand onthe wheel, leaning over and talking to a woman on the passenger side. Taylornoticed the license plate: MS VLJ. Suddenly the Camaro pulled over. Taylor idledbehind it. A pretty young woman stepped out of the passenger side, then leanedthrough the window, talking to the driver. She glanced back at Doug Taylor.There didn't seem to be any trouble. Taylor didn't want to be late for work.Besides, he was in his civilian car with no radio, no way of calling for backup,no bulletproof vest or weapon. Confronting a suspected DUI would violate allrules of officer safety. He drove past the red Camaro and the pretty young womanand didn't give either another thought until both showed up on a police fliertwo days later.Less than an hour after Doug Taylor spotted the Camaro, several residents of aquiet Arlington neighborhood behind McKinley Elementary School heard a womanscreaming, followed by what sounded like gunfire. Followed by silence. No onecalled police. A couple of guys riding motorbikes came across the body behindthe school at 2 in the morning. The victim was nude. Her jeans, jacket and redsweater were neatly folded next to her, alongside her matching red shoes.When the horrifying discovery was reported on the morning news, Tina Jefferson'sroommates immediately called the police: Tina hadn't come home the night before,or shown up for work that morning at the CIA, where she was a junior accountant.An upstairs neighbor who happened to be a policeman went to the station andpositively identified Tina from photos of the crime scene. Later that afternoon,a patrol car found her Camaro back in the Giant lot, parked now around the sideof the building, her designer purse in the back seat, her ice cream melted inthe grocery sack. There were no obvious signs of struggle, and no fingerprints.Whoever killed Tina Jefferson was brazen enough to abduct her and then drive hercar back to a huge, 24-hour store full of potential witnesses.Arlington police set up camp in the Giant and, with help from the FBI,interviewed 186 employees. A box-cutter had been found in the Camaro, leadingthem to suspect the killer worked at the store. Friends, acquaintances andneighbors also were interviewed, and detectives pressed their snitches forleads. The field of potential suspects was whittled down to half a dozen; bloodsamples were taken to check against the DNA evidence. No matches. Tina'sboyfriend and other male acquaintances were likewise cleared.Velda and Henry "Jeff" Jefferson had trouble accepting the theory that Tina knewher killer. Because Tina's clothes were found folded on the ground next to herbody, some investigators speculated that the sex may have been consensual. Veldawas especially pained by this. That didn't happen, she insisted. Tina was notthe kind of girl who would lie down in the dirt behind some school late at nightwith a man. She was dating a medical student. She was an accountant who diedwearing her sorority pin, not some streetwalker. And what kind of consentrequired a bullet? The Jeffersons felt certain the killer was a stranger. Still,they packed every sympathy card and telegram of condolence they received into ashoe box and sent it to investigators to examine.Rumors began to circulate that Tina might have been killed because of her job,that maybe she had uncovered some sort of embezzlement at the CIA. Tina had beenrecruited by the agency during her senior year at Oklahoma State, and was inline for a promotion. She'd been in Virginia for two years, but was thinking ofgoing back to Oklahoma. She was homesick. Her parents urged her to stick it out.There wasn't much of a future for her in a dull prairie town like Lawton. Tinawould be coming home for Memorial Day weekend; they could talk about it then.The CIA sent her parents posthumous letters of commendation lauding Tina, whichthey framed and hung on the family room wall next to the portraits, diplomas andother testimonials that form their private memorial. Fairfax detectives pursuedthe CIA rumors, but found nothing.When a Washington TV station ran an anniversary piece about the sensationalmurder of Tina Jefferson, an elderly couple suddenly realized they had seen herin the grocery store that night. They told police an attractive black man hadflirted with Tina at the deli counter, and that they had later noticed himstanding with her next to the red Camaro. She kept glancing around. The womanthought she seemed anxious. "She did smile at him. She did laugh," the witnesslater told "Unsolved Mysteries." "I did have an uneasy feeling -- not dramaticenough to push ahead." Working with the couple, a police artist produced acomposite sketch of the suspect. Memory is unreliable, though, and so much timehad passed. The composite just didn't feel right to Doug Taylor. The sheriff'sdeputy had undergone hypnosis a few days after the murder, but he had onlyglimpsed the man behind the wheel of the Camaro, and his subconscious could notfill in any details. The guy in the sketch just seemed too handsome and preppy.Nevertheless, the composite was circulated. More than 250 calls poured into thepolice hot line after "Unsolved Mysteries," but not a single one panned out. Thelead detective on the case made a point of presenting it to each class of newrecruits, in hopes that someone might come up with a fresh angle. Years passed.Detectives retired or moved on, informants dried up, suspects were eliminated,no new witnesses emerged, and the files marked "Jefferson" were relegated to theshelves where unsolved cases molder."We are a culture that's been raised on a steady diet of resolved mysteries andit's hard for us to come to grips with the fact that a random homicide is bydefinition the hardest to solve," reflects Arlington Police Chief Edward Flynn."Homicide investigation is not a boxed Clue set where you start out knowingyou've got a candlestick, a library and Colonel Mustard."And while homicide has the highest clearance rate of any violent crime inAmerica -- 69 percent, according to the Justice Department -- all rookies learnthat the ones they don't solve within the first 72 hours are the ones theyprobably never will.In Fairfax County, the Raver-Fulton case met the same fate. Family membersoccasionally called, and at their behest, Fairfax detectives had even presentedthe case to an elite Philadelphia club of criminologists to brainstorm in late1999. The experts at the Vidocq Society were flummoxed, too. This killer seemedtoo meticulous and careful for a carjacker. Some crucial part of the puzzleseemed to be missing. "He has his own script of what he wants to happen,"concluded Richard Walter, a Vidocq co-founder and criminal profiler.Reluctantly, homicide detectives in Fairfax and Arlington were reaching the sameconclusion about their separate cold cases: DNA was their only real hope.Biotech Two, the state forensics laboratory in Richmond built with an infusionof cash and foresight from local celebrity and crime novelist Patricia Cornwell,is a blindingly white building as new as the technology it contains. Here,experts can extract DNA from the sweat stain inside a baseball cap, from theunseen saliva on a paper cup, from a speck of blood, from a drop of semen. Aprofile is created from a series of numbers assigned to 13 genetic loci, orlocations. The chance of two human beings, other than identical twins, havingthe same DNA profile is infinitesimal. For laymen, though, the term "profile"is, for now, misleading: The genetic information currently analyzed by criminalinvestigators reveals no identifying traits, characteristics or medicalconditions. Science has not yet reached that stage. No analysis of the DNA leftbehind by the man who raped Rachael Raver, for example, can tell detectives hisrace, or the color of his eyes, or whether he is diabetic, or a genius, ormentally retarded. It is the chemical equivalent of a bar code, not a list ofhuman ingredients that add up to a description.The national DNA databank is not a single repository of profiles, rather anetwork of state databanks -- around three dozen so far, with the rest stilltrying to update their labs and technology to meet the uniform standardsrequired. Two kinds of samples are logged in: DNA profiles from convictedoffenders, and DNA taken from the scene of unsolved crimes. Each statedetermines whose DNA to include among the convicted offenders. Many started outprofiling only those convicted of homicide or sexual assault. Virginia charted apioneer course, in 1990 becoming the first state to require DNA samples from allfelons entering the penal system. The National Institute of Justice reports thatat least 20 other states now have legislation pending to do the same.When homicide detectives separately entered evidence from the Fairfax andArlington murders, no matches were found. Today, Virginia's bank of 135,000convicted-offender samples is the largest in the country, and accounts for fullya quarter of the national total. Some 300 cold cases have been solved by thecomputers in Biotech Two, matching the DNA of convicts to DNA taken from crimescenes, and as the databank expands, the pace quickens. "We're averaging a hit aweek now," says Paul Ferrara, the state's chief forensic scientist. The vastmajority of these "hits" have linked people imprisoned for burglary to unsolvedsexual assaults -- nonviolent offenders to violent crimes. An additional threedozen cases have been linked to each other, with the perpetrator still unknown.But the process of checking crime-scene evidence against the databank can betime-consuming and expensive for local police departments. The NationalInstitute of Justice estimates the average cost at about $ 1,000 to $ 1,500 percrime scene (Ferrara puts it at three times that amount), and even a lab withlittle or no backlog, like Biotech Two, can take 100 days to return results.Experts conservatively estimate that nationwide there is a backlog of at least 1million blood samples that have been collected from convicted felons but notanalyzed or profiled because state labs are overburdened, underfunded and oftenlack the equipment or technicians to do so.In New York, where Rachael Raver's car was found and where detectives presumethe killer has some tie, testing the semen collected from Rachael's body againstthe state's meager databank of killers and rapists was an exercise in futility.Thousands of rape kits from New York City alone were sitting around unprocessed,and would be for years to come. Checking the killer's DNA against offenders andsimilar crimes in Maryland or the District was also pointless: D.C. has nodatabank, and Maryland, like most other states, was seriously behind in enteringDNA evidence and responding to requests for matches.Over the past decade, the FBI has recorded a total of 1,212 hits in the nationalDNA databank -- 705 linked offenders to unsolved crimes, while 507 matched crimescenes to one another without identifying the suspects."The technology is undeniably effective, but it's purely a matter of money,"says Chris Asplen, executive director of the Clinton administration's NationalCommission on the Future of DNA Evidence. Last December, Congress authorized $170 million to help states process DNA evidence, but whether those funds willactually be appropriated during the Bush administration is uncertain."DNA has the ability to identify and convict a suspect, connect crime scenes andexonerate the innocent," Asplen says. Yet it can take six months to a year formany states to field and respond to a police request for a possible DNA match."You're costing people's lives, and that's unacceptable," Asplen adds. "Somepolice departments won't even let you ask for DNA testing unless you have asuspect."Fairfax was willing to spend the money, though, and the department's cold-casesquad resubmitted DNA from the Raver-Fulton case last year. DNA technology hadimproved greatly over the years, for one thing. And the killer may have beenconvicted of some other crime since 1988, with his DNA profile now registered inthe national databank. Bob Murphy, the homicide detective who had inherited theRaver-Fulton case, thought it was worth a shot. He and his partner had 70unsolved murders in Fairfax County dating back to 1964, and the Raver-Fultoncase was one of the few with no suspects. Coincidentally, Arlington police hadjust formed their own cold-case squad, and one of the first orders of businesswas to have the state lab process DNA from the Jefferson murder again.In April 2000, detectives in Arlington and Fairfax got a call from Biotech Two.They ought to get together, the lab tech advised, because whoever killed TinaJefferson had killed Warren Fulton and Rachael Raver, too. After 12 years,police in the neighboring counties realized for the first time that they weren'tlooking for a crackhead car thief or random rapist. They were dealing, in alllikelihood, with a serial killer.The summer before Rachael died, she went with her mother and aunt to Arizona.The trip was her graduation gift. One afternoon, a black crow suddenly swoopedtoward her, coming so close that Rachael had to duck and cover her eyes. Whenthe women happened to mention the strange incident to a Hopi woman they met,they were surprised by her reaction, how visibly upset she was. Only later,after Rachael was gone, did her mother learn that the crow was a legendaryemissary between the living and the dead.With the murders of Rachael, Warren and Tina linked by a strand of DNA evidence,what once seemed like odd coincidences now became potential clues, their meaningmaddeningly unclear. Were the nearly identical red shoes Tina and Rachael wore afetish item that enticed the killer? The two women didn't live near each other,but could the killer have first spotted them in the same place -- maybe a bar,or a gym, or at some social event? Tina had been killed on May 10 -- Rachael'sbirthday. She also had the same first name as Rachael's mother. Was thatsignificant?The DNA match for the first time offered Fairfax police eyewitnesses who couldprovide at least some description of the suspect, while Arlington now had a NewYork connection to consider, thanks to Rachael's abandoned car. Detectives fromboth departments met to brainstorm and try to pick up a trail cold for 12 years.Threads that might have been tugged had investigators suspected a single killerfrom the outset would prove difficult if not impossible to find again, though.Friends and roommates of the victims had moved on, memories had purged, papertrails had disintegrated. Hard to trace now, for example, whether someone at theGiant when Tina Jefferson was killed was at the since-closed Mister Days sevenmonths later on the night Warren and Rachael disappeared.The investigations may have been at a virtual standstill for more than a decade,but the Ravers had been in constant motion. Deidre Raver became a politicalactivist, lobbying hard for funds to establish a comprehensive national DNAdatabank and donating time to various victim organizations. Her obsession withsolving Rachael's murder grew ever deeper. She wrote letters to the media,elbowed her way into meetings of the national DNA commission, networked withforensics experts and profilers around the country, and badgered the processionof investigators assigned to her sister's case. She went to Reston and stood inthe field where Rachael died, calmly asking the detective who accompanied her:"Wouldn't he have gotten blood all over him?""I was neglectful of my personal life," rues Deidre, now 40. "Relationships werevery difficult because when you're obsessed with something, you need to focus onthat one thing. You feel like a tornado has picked you up and put you down inOz, like starting a whole new life in a whole new world. I became so involved Iforgot it was my sister. It was a case."In the New York City apartment she shares with the five stray cats she hasadopted, the bookcase is crammed with criminology tomes and true-crime stories.Deidre went to night school to earn a master's degree in criminal justice. Shethinks about one day working as a crime statistician, but for now, she'semployed by an investment management firm in Manhattan. Whoever murdered hersister took away the life Deidre might have had, as well. "We can never acceptwhat happened," she says with finality.Her determination to find and punish Rachael's killer was drawn from a hiddenwell of guilt. "I was raped at 19 and didn't report it," she announces evenly,another fact to recite, a statistic internally calculated. It was a date rape.She told Rachael the details when her younger sister was 15, stressing to herthe need to be vigilant. Rachael always was. "I feel guilty that I'm still aliveand she isn't," Deidre admits, knowing this is common among survivors,inevitable even. She wonders whether Rachael's killer had raped before, if therewas a victim whose silence cost her sister her life.Deidre experienced the world in absolutes. "There is good and there is evil, andyou really have to try to get out and do good to make up for the evil. Life isvery precious." She became a volunteer for victims' advocacy and support groups.When she refers now to her friends, their names are welded to graphic clauses:so-and-so, whose daughter was strangled by her jealous boyfriend; so-and-so,whose teenage sister was gunned down over a cheeseburger. For a decade sheimmersed herself in victims' lives, until finally she could no longer bear theaggregate weight of their pain. Deidre went to the mountains and learned to ski.She fought the temptation to call the police whenever another rape or murder inthe paper made her wonder if it was the work of Rachael's uncaught killer.Deidre was finally learning how to let go, how to begin tentatively filling inthe big empty spaces of her black-and-white life with colors, when the DNA matchrevived her sister's case. She quickly tracked down the Jeffersons in Oklahoma,their shared anguish forging an instant friendship. There had never been thatkind of connection with Warren's family. "After, our family was drinking,talking about killing this guy, and the Fultons were in church praying, sayingthey forgave, that Warren was a spirit now," is Deidre's take on the dividebetween them. The Jeffersons eagerly joined Deidre's renewed campaign forjustice. They appeared together on various TV shows to draw attention to DNA'scrime-solving potential and push for federal funds to eliminate the backlog ofprofiles. After the Montel Williams show, a man with an accent that soundedCaribbean called Deidre at home. "I did your sister," he said, then hung up.Rachael's parents coped in different ways. Norm Raver at first was so distraughtthat his family couldn't reach him. "We would hear him walk through the houseslamming doors," Deidre recalls. "He was totally out of his mind." Veronicavisited Rachael's grave sometimes two or three times a day. On the anniversaryof Rachael's death, her mother stood alone at the newly placed rose granitemarker and recited a prayer aloud. The squirrels chattering in the treetops felleerily silent. When Veronica turned to go, she saw three black crows perched ona headstone behind her, watching.Veronica is 69 now, retired from her job as a nurse in a hospital psychiatricward, struggling to care for her husband, who suffers from Alzheimer's. Thememory of Rachael murdered remains mercilessly vivid, and he leaves the room ifhe hears her name. Veronica still sometimes speaks of her in the present tense("Rachael has a teaching degree . . .") and finds solace in reminders ofRachael. "It was 11 years before I could touch her collection of teddy bears,"she admits. Only this past winter did she begin getting rid of the sweaters herdaughter once wore. Veronica keeps maps of Virginia and D.C., marked with theplaces Warren and Rachael were that night. She makes light of this. "I'm JaneMarple and Deidre's Nancy Drew."It was Veronica who found the matchbook next to Rachael's grave less than amonth after her murder. She went there to pray on New Year's Day 1989 and sawsomething black shining in the snow a few feet away. The matchbook hadn't beenthere when she had visited late the previous afternoon. Veronica picked it up.It was from a D.C. bar called La Cage aux Folles. Then she noticed the freshcigarette butts in front of the grave. He's been here, she thought. The itemswere FedExed to Fairfax police. There is no record suggesting the cigarettebutts were ever checked for DNA.Like Deidre, Veronica had immersed herself in the annals of murder, using hermedical training to try to comprehend the mind of a sociopath. "Apparently, it'snot unusual for a person to go back to relive the crime," she explains. Theexperts from Vidocq felt Rachael had been stalked. The year before her murder,she had received menacing phone calls, which had stopped when she moved aftergraduation. But several weeks before she was killed, Rachael told family membersthere had been another disturbing message from a stranger on her answeringmachine. It was so obscene she refused to repeat it.On a cold February day last year, just two months before the DNA match, Veronicafound a nickel placed carefully on Rachael's grave. How clever, she thought.Rachael's friends would sometimes leave tokens or notes, to show they hadvisited. Veronica thought the nickel, with the image of Monticello face up, mustbe a greeting from some Virginia friend passing through. She left it on thegrave. Later, Deidre would call her mother: Look what's on the other side of anickel! Thomas Jefferson. Jefferson is the last name of the other girl. By then,though, the nickel was gone.If anyone ever left a mysterious calling card on Tina Jefferson's grave, theprairie wind whipped it away unseen. The wind here is resolute. Tina bought herbeloved Camaro during a tornado warning, calling her visiting grandmother backat the house with instructions to wait it out in a closet. Panic wasn't Tina'sstyle.The car had to be red. Red and white were her college sorority colors, and shehad been president of Delta Sigma Theta. Tina, with her hazel eyes and winningsmile, had always been popular. Her old photo albums bulge with pictures offriends and good times. When the vague composite sketch of her suspected killerwas released, Crystal Jefferson, then 16, went through her slain sister'sscrapbooks methodically, looking for that face.Velda Jefferson, like Deidre Raver, vented her emotions through support groups.She also found comfort in the dog-eared Bible she took with her to work each dayat the Goodyear Tire and Rubber factory. Jeff Jefferson could not share hiswife's faith. "I blamed God. I did, I sure did," he says. He used to sit aloneat his daughter's grave for hours each night, listening in the wind, looking inthe darkness, for an answer that still eludes him. But it was Crystal, herparents agree, who took Tina's death the hardest. Crystal could not bear to goto the cemetery, could not voice her anger or fear. "I never talked about it,ever," she says now. "I used to have really bad dreams. Dreams I was there. Shewould come talk to me." Once, Tina came to Crystal in a dream and named herkiller: Wilson. It wasn't a name the Jeffersons recognized, but her fathercalled Arlington police to pass it along, anyway.Now, in her parents' living room, Crystal is reminiscing about the summer beforeTina died, when she visited her sister in Northern Virginia, and she idlyrecalls how protective Tina was. There was this guy named Tony, Crystalremembers, a friend of one of Tina's neighbors and, like Crystal, an avid fan ofthe rapper LL Cool J. The neighbor put Tony in touch with Crystal, and theyphoned back and forth. When Tony wanted to meet Crystal at a concert, Tina puther foot down: You're only 14. Tony was a grown man. Tony moved back to his hometown but stayed in touch, sending Crystal tapes and notes. They fell out oftouch. Tony was from LL Cool J's home base. Somewhere in New York. Queens.Jeff Jefferson stiffens. "This is the first I've heard of this." The next day heis on the phone to Arlington police, reporting this newly discovered connectionto the place where Rachael's car was found. He gets in touch with Deidre Raver,too. They will both tuck this information into the files they keep on the casethey now share.In Arlington, the police department's cold-case squad assigned an intern toreview and reorganize the dusty folders and boxes that constitute the unsolvedJefferson case. Sarah Lake is 23, the same age Tina was when she died. Acriminal sciences graduate student at George Washington University, Sarah hasspent most of the school year rereading every interview, analyzing everylong-ago lead, looking for holes or possible angles not yet pursued. The casenow fills a dozen fat binders, orderly yet still incomprehensible. SometimesSarah will be riding the Metro and think, What if he's here, what if he's onthis train? But what bothers Sarah most are the same questions that bewilder theJeffersons, perplex investigators and haunt the off-duty deputy who last sawTina alive that night: Was the Camaro weaving because the killer had a gun onTina? When she got out of the car, why didn't she scream, why didn't she run,why didn't she flag down help?"The impression I got from the police was it was a date that went wrong," saysVelda. "I could never buy that in my heart. It upset me for them to have thatperspective, but I didn't say anything." They also never complained to policeabout the deputy who spotted the Camaro driving erratically but failed to act."It sounds like he took his safety over hers," Jeff says. His wife and youngestdaughter nod, then Velda speaks up."We're talking 12 years ago. We're talking black girl . . .""Hush, baby," her husband gently begs, "be quiet.""Well, I said it."Crystal cannot end it here. Her fury is hard and absolute, her words unsparing:"My sister could still be alive."The family moved across town a few years after Tina's murder, so they wouldn'thave to pass the cemetery on the way to work, so they would stop saying "checkin Tina's room" when looking for something they misplaced. But the pain followedthem, of course."I want to get back to that God thing, you know," Jeff Jefferson says urgently."My religious faith is not as strong as my wife and daughter's. I don'tunderstand why bad things happen to good people . . . I think I might see herrun past. One day I was in the kitchen doing something. The music was off, theTV was off. I heard steps in the hallway and I felt someone here with me." Veldahas a story like this, too."One of the things I thought most of all was I'll never hold my baby again," sherecalls. "It was on a Saturday and I was sleeping. I felt her presence, rightthere, and I wouldn't turn and look but I felt this hug. God gave me thatcomfort because He wanted me to be able to hold her one last time. I've not beenable to really cry until recently. One night here recently, I was by myself andI began to cry and cry and cry and cry."Back in Virginia, Crystal's idle memory of a man from Queens is the first newinformation developed in the case since the DNA matchup. The cold-case detectiveoverseeing the investigation, Andy Pachoko, heads to Oklahoma with Sarah Lake toquestion Crystal. They bring back a picture of Tony, and then ask Jeff to send abox of Tina's letters and personal papers that have been stored in theJeffersons' attic, unopened for 13 years. They are careful not to get thefamily's hopes up.Doug Taylor has left law enforcement and works in computers now. He remembersseeing the police flier seeking information about the murder of Tina Jefferson,and how he recognized her picture, and that car, and how the hairs on the backof his neck stood up."She looked over at me. Certainly I would have seen distress on her face, panic.She was composed. Certainly if she was in danger, I wouldn't have driven away."Taylor himself had to submit to the humiliation of being considered a potentialsuspect, surrendering samples of his blood, his saliva, his hair, allowingtechnicians to look under his fingernails. His DNA cleared him of anyculpability. After he appeared on "Unsolved Mysteries" on the first anniversaryto talk about the case, Taylor was stunned by the angry calls he got fromstrangers who said he had caused Tina's death because he didn't stop the Camarothat night."They're not right," he says now with soft conviction. "They're not right."Warren Fulton never lived in the lovely house in the suburbs of Atlanta wherehis parents now live, yet the guest room upstairs is referred to as his room.His baseball team photo hangs on the wall. His father has never gone to anothergame, and still freezes in his tracks when he hears the sound, coming from theTV set, of bat meeting ball."I never knew what wailing was, but I could not stop it." Warren Hudson FultonII sits soldier straight at his kitchen table in his Salvation Army uniform, hiseyes wet, dignity and despair in counterpoint. "I think we're far down the roadto coping," he decides. "Our lives are devoted to caregiving. We knew what todo, but couldn't keep from having to live through it.""Does that make sense?" Jackie asks brightly. She was once a schoolteacher. Sheconfronted her anguish, that long-ago winter, by devising what amounted to alesson plan. A psychology major in college, she now began reading everything shecould about loss and healing, from academic papers and Christian tracts to thesugar-coated bestsellers. She emerged something of a self-taught expert ongrief. Less than a year after Warren's death, the Fultons began offering griefseminars through the Salvation Army. They keep bright green folders full ofcharts and handouts, with "The Stages of Grief" plotted out in the shape of a U,20 of them in all, with loneliness at the very bottom. They have completed thisemotional obstacle course themselves, maneuvered their way past numbness andfear and panic, climbing back up the other side to hope and affirmation andhelping others. Still, Warren's father privately likens his sorrow to an oceanwithout shores.Six months after Warren's death, his parents spoke about grief at a SalvationArmy gathering. A woman approached Warren's father afterward, and said hernewlywed daughter and son-in-law had been killed by a drunk driver on theirhoneymoon. She put her arms around his neck and whispered in his ear: The joywill return.It took seven years. Driving through the Shenandoah Valley at sunset, the lightpure and beautiful, "I was flooded with an aesthetic moment of joy," Warren'sfather remembers. "It was like the fig leaf the dove brought to Noah to showthat the storms were over and soon we'd be anchored again to dry land."What pained the Fultons as much as losing their son was the possibility thatthey had not really known him. Warren had been raised in a strict Christianhome, immersed in Salvation Army tenets of temperance, yet he had been in a barthe night he was killed. Were there other things about his lifestyle that hisparents never knew? "The first thing that haunted us was: Has our son beeninvolved in something illegal that put him in the path of this killer?" hisfather recalls. The detectives came to the house to search through Warren'sroom. Here is his checkbook, his father said, here are his dresser drawers.Jackie was distraught: Why do all this, do you think Warren was involved? Justroutine police work, she was told.When Warren's friends heard the news, Dan Gutstein called the Fultons and askedto come over. "I just wish we could form a prayer chain around him," heremembers Jackie saying, and he realized that she meant the killer.Gutstein is a poet now, teaching creative writing at GW. He is angry and bitterabout the way the investigation of his best friend's murder was handled, mockingdetectives in his poetry, aggrieved that cherished friends were regarded aspotential suspects, though DNA quickly exonerated them.The Fultons feel uneasy about putting a name and a face to the killer for adifferent reason."See, in the Salvation Army, we believe that every person born in the world hasaccess to the grace of God," Warren's father explains. "The whole movement ofthe Salvation Army is to love the unloved . . . For us, anger and hate afterthis man would be an insult to Warren. He will be brought down. I believe that.The Ravers wouldn't understand. We can't spend our lives hunting this man. Wecould have served this man, filled his stomach, and sent him away."The Fultons have mastered grief now, and Warren's father was bewildered one daynot long ago when he and Jackie were riding home from work and he recounted aco-worker's tale about a car slipping out of gear and hurtling backward down asteep hill toward the co-worker's son. The son was thrown from his car andknocked unconscious. Did you see the angels? Angels carried me from the car! hehad said upon waking. Warren Fulton considered this an inspirational story, butJackie was uncharacteristically silent in the passenger seat beside him, andwhen he glanced over, she was sobbing. Where were Warren's angels? she wanted toknow.A year has passed since a strand of DNA linked three families to a killer whoremains unknown.The Jeffersons occasionally hear from other parents of murdered children, andtry to offer what comfort and hope they can. Crystal is 28 now, a single motherof two well-mannered children who looks at life warily. "I don't trust anyone,"she declares simply. When the detectives flew to Oklahoma a few weeks ago,Crystal went through the scrapbooks again. Nothing has come of the Tony lead sheunearthed.Warren Fulton's baseball team went to the Atlantic 10 Conference finals thespring after he died. His father wears his championship ring sometimes. Hismother wears the gold chain the killer didn't take, and she keeps theglitter-spangled cross her son never hung on the Christmas tree.Veronica Raver still visits Rachael's grave as often as she can, seeking bothcomfort and clues. Deidre wonders if she and her mother should tack up newfliers in Queens now that there's a composite sketch. Even if police don't havemuch faith in the portrait, it's still something.That a laboratory computer in Richmond discovered in 30 seconds what seasonedinvestigators had missed for 12 years encapsulates both the promise andshortcomings of DNA in forensic science. "The power of technology now can createlinkups that logic never could," allows Arlington chief Flynn. "I tell you: Youlook at those homicides straight up, and there's no connection. It's very rarein the world of serial murders to take on a boyfriend. Both of them wereexhaustively investigated from every point of view."But the surge of hope fueled by the DNA link is now barely a flicker. Knowingwhat they do now, investigators have the sickening feeling that this may nothave started with Tina Jefferson or ended with Rachael Raver. Killers do notretire. They are caught, or they die, or they murder again. The Arlington andFairfax cases are waiting now for the FBI's behavioral sciences unit at Quanticoto produce a psychological profile of the person capable of such crimes.Richard Walter has his own theories already. There is no such thing ascoincidence when it comes to murder, the Vidocq Society profiler believes.Everything has meaning. The red shoes, the matchbook and the nickel, are allpart of the murderer's elaborate script, a secret no DNA or computer program canyet decode. "Contrary to what the public believes," Walter explains, "a murderdoesn't end when the victim dies. It's over when he says it's over."Tamara Jones is a Magazine staff writer. She will be fielding questions andcomments about this article at 1 p.m. Monday on www.washingtonpost.com/liveonline.</body>CORRECTION-DATE: July 08, 2001, SundayCORRECTION:In the June 17 Washington Post Magazine article on three unsolved murders linkedby DNA evidence in Northern Virginia, the last name of the Arlington County leaddetective, Andy Baciocco, was misspelled.