How do you get a county named after you? Well, it helps if you're a noble -- ora hero. That's what I discovered when I looked into where our local names camefrom. I discovered a lot of other things, too.Washington, D.C.That's an easy one. The capital is named after our first president, GeorgeWashington. Every schoolchild knows about him, though much of what we know iswrong. He didn't chop down a cherry tree. (That myth was invented by an earlybiographer, door-to-door Bible salesman Mason Locke Weems.) He didn't havewooden teeth. (His dentures were made of hippopotamus teeth, among othermaterials.) He didn't throw a silver dollar across the Potomac River. (It was astone, and it was the much narrower Rappahannock.)But Washington was a onetime surveyor, a successful planter, a slave owner andthe young nation's consummate soldier/politician.As for the "District of Columbia" portion, that's named after the Italian who"discovered" the New World: Christopher Columbus, who, it is said, sunburnedeasily.Montgomery CountyKilled in a raging snowstorm on New Year's Eve 1775, while leading an assault onthe British-held city of Quebec, the Irish-born Richard Montgomery became thecountry's first national hero. At least 18 U.S. counties and towns are named forhim.Prince George's CountyAn overweight, alcoholic asthmatic who never shed his thick Scandinavian accent,Prince George of Denmark didn't make much of an impression on those who met him.But he was extremely loyal to his wife, Britain's Queen Anne. "I am hermajesty's subject," he once said modestly.Howard CountyLt. Col. John Eager Howard was the son of a wealthy Baltimore County planter whorose through the ranks of the Continental Army. At the Battle of Cowpens inSouth Carolina in 1781, he ordered his men to make a bayonet charge that routedthe enemy. Howard's bravery earned him a silver medal from Congress. He went onto serve as a delegate to the Continental Congress, governor of Maryland andU.S. senator.Frederick CountyWhat can you say about a man accused of having his own harem and who was thecentral character in a notorious London rape case? Why, you can say thatFrederick County is named after him. Frederick Calvert was the sixth and, as itturned out, last Lord Baltimore. In 1768, he was accused of "feloniouslyravishing" a milliner named Sarah Woodcock, after luring her to his Epsom estatewith the promise of work. Amazingly, Frederick was acquitted.Arlington CountyThe county takes its name from George Washington Parke Custis's estate. As forCustis's estate, it took its name from an English nobleman named Henry Bennet,later earl of Arlington. During England's Civil War, Bennet took a saber in theface, a blow that cut right down to the bone. For the rest of his life, he worea black bandage across his nose to cover the unsightly scar.AlexandriaWe know whom Alexandria is named after. We just don't know much about the guy.John Alexander was a Scottish planter who in 1669 gave an English ship captainnamed Robert Howson 6,000 pounds of tobacco for the land that would eventuallytake his family's name.Fairfax CountyThomas, Lord Fairfax, didn't just talk the talk, he walked the walk. Afterinheriting holdings in Virginia's Northern Neck from his mother, he twicetraveled to America. The second time he stayed for good, even hiring a young mannamed George Washington to survey some of his land.Julia Feldmeier helped research this essay. "John Kelly's Washington" appearsSunday through Thursday in the Metro Section.To learn about whom other Washington area counties are named for, visithttp://www.washingtonpost.com.