AT THE BROOKSTREE APARTMENTS, a low- to middle-income housing complex at thedead end of Valerio Street in Van Nuys, Calif., Gilbert Arenas, 12, made hisfirst jaw-dropping move. A kid had challenged him to jump off the top of thebuilding into the community pool. The height was three stories, maybe 30 feet.But the distance between the ledge and the water was more than enough to produceterror. Young Gilbert would have to leap five to 10 yards through the air, likea long jumper, to miss the concrete and avoid breaking his legs.With limbs flailing, adrenaline pulsing, he sprinted and jumped. And splasheddown safely. The Brookstree boys went wild, and another great Americanpeople-pleaser was born.One other afternoon, the kids upped the ante. Gilbert was dared to make the samejump, only this time adding a back flip. He pulled it off, but his head caughtthe pool edge.Mr. Arenas! Mr. Arenas! a young boy yelled toward the apartment where Gilbertand his father lived. Gil hurt.Gilbert Arenas Sr. came running out. He looked at his son's head and saw agruesome gash, several inches wide. The cut was deep, and the wound bled for 30minutes after the accident. "He kept saying, 'Dad, it's okay. I'm okay,'"Gilbert Arenas Sr. remembers. "I'm thinking, that ain't going to go away."Gilbert got stitched up at the emergency room, but the scar is visible today,near the top of his forehead. As he proudly showed it to me last spring in hisIndianapolis hotel room, I asked him if now, as a 25-year-old father of two, hehad come to appreciate boundaries more since then."Boundaries?" he said, snickering. "What are those?"MID-SEPTEMBER, A HOT, STICKY GYMNASIUM IN THE DISTRICT, seven weeks before theWashington Wizards' 2007-08 season opener. On the court is a mishmash ofArenas's Wizards teammates, unsigned free agents and NBA hopefuls, all of whomare locked in an intense pickup game that means, for Arenas, nothing andeverything. He's one of the league's top players, but after a five-monthoff-season hiatus from this kind of competitive workout, he needs to reestablishhis dominance. Now the ball is in his hands near the end of a tight game, andthe next basket wins."I got this," Arenas says. With a defender's hand in his face, he squares hisfeet maybe 10 feet behind the three-point line, rises and launches an impossiblylong shot from 35 feet. All net."Game time!" he calls out.The losing team trudges off the court. Arenas bobs his head and smiles. His leftknee is still sore from inflammation, five months after he underwent surgery fora torn meniscus suffered in a collision during a regular-season game in April.The injury brought a deflating end to a breakout season that saw Arenas eclipseEarl Monroe's 38-year-old single-game franchise scoring record, win a bevy ofgames at the buzzer, backpack the Wizards to the best record in the NBA'sEastern Conference through late January and basically emerge as the league's newIt Guy.Under the pseudonym "Agent Zero," he wrote an offbeat, candid blog for NBA.comthat revealed his more juvenile side, once writing that he had hoped to borrowHeather Mills's artificial leg after she had finished "Dancing With the Stars,"so that he could compete in the playoffs with the injury.In one dizzying year, he went from being considered an enigmatic gunner withquestions about his maturity to a refreshing, authentic oddball who could alsocarry a team. Arenas came to Washington at a time when its woebegone basketballteam, on the heels of a bitter breakup with Michael Jordan, was headed towardinsignificance. With each season, Arenas has brought more hope and buzz to afranchise that had lost whatever promise came with Jordan.So, after a summer in which NBA Commissioner David Stern has been dealing with ascandal involving a referee who pleaded guilty to betting on games and providinginformation to gamblers, and after an absolute dud of a postseason that endedwith the San Antonio Spurs sweeping the Cleveland Cavaliers and theirleague-approved poster child LeBron James in four games, professional basketballneeds Arenas more than ever.Balky knee notwithstanding, that's why Arenas is pushing the envelope again. Hetook one genuine vacation over the summer, a trip to Tahiti with his two youngchildren and their mother, who recently moved into his suburban Virginia home.After he returned, Arenas got an ornate tattoo -- a sturdy tree with vineswrapped around it, covering his entire back. It reads, "Family Is a Haven in aHeartless World."He also shot a commercial for Adidas in Los Angeles and another in Tennessee forSpalding with Titans quarterback Vince Young. Besides that, his summer wascomposed of knee rehabilitation. Physical therapy. Lifting. Biking throughdowntown Washington. Running with two parachutes attached to his back on thetrack at Cardozo High School, where he recalls a few kids looking down fromtheir classroom windows and yelling, "Gilbert! Gilbert! Is it him? It's him!"If there is a next plateau for Arenas, it's not merely to lead the Wizards to anNBA title. That's just a destination. Arenas hates the perception that playerswho never won a championship -- current or future Hall of Famers such as KarlMalone, John Stockton, Patrick Ewing, Charles Barkley and Reggie Miller, to namea few -- had disappointing careers. For Arenas, it's about the journey."When I leave the NBA," he says, "I don't want my legacy to be, 'He won achampionship ring.' I want my legacy to say: 'He played for the people. He gaveeverybody in the world hope that they can be just like him.'"LAST SEASON, THERE WERE NIGHTS, BEFORE HE SCORED 40 POINTS or sent another arenainto a state of delirium with some implausible circus shot to win a game, thatArenas sat by his cubicle in the Wizards' locker room, bobbing his head to andfro. Lyrics from hip-hop artist The Game penetrated his senses. One of Arenas'sfavorite riffs by the Compton, Calif., rapper is a duet with 50 Cent. The chorusgoes like this:Hate it or love it, the underdog's on topAnd I'm gonna shine, homie, until my heart stop.From the moment his father picked him up from a dilapidated Miami public housingcomplex as a young boy to his formative years in Los Angeles, Gilbert Arenas hasviewed himself as the under-dog. But why has the NBA's newest superstar -- andarguably the most intriguing Washington athlete in the past two decades --always felt like he had so much to prove to so many?He was born January 6, 1982, to 18-year-old Mary Frances Robinson, who droppedout of West Tampa's Jefferson High School once she became pregnant. She andGilbert Arenas Sr. had already broken up by the time their baby was born.Gilbert Sr. had gone off to Florida Memorial College in Miami to play baseballfor an uncle who coached the team and promised him a scholarship. Robinson hadmoved to public housing with young Gilbert.A year later, while home for spring break to visit his son, Gilbert Sr. says hecame upon Robinson and a friend doing drugs outside. He scolded her, tellingRobinson she had a baby upstairs. "You don't need to be doing this," he recallstelling her. Determined to someday obtain full custody of Gilbert, he leftangrily.Two years later, Gilbert and his infant half brother were left alone in a crackhouse. Gilbert was 3 years old. Soon after, his father received a call from thegrandmother of Robinson's other son. Gilbert Sr. recalls the woman, VirginiaHuggins, saying: "I have your son with me right now in Miami. I'm giving you anopportunity to be a father.""I said, 'Hey, look, say no more,'" recalls Gilbert Sr., who was a four-hourdrive away in Tampa. "I'll be down there."When his father arrived, Gilbert slung a plastic bag with three pieces ofclothing in it over his shoulder and jumped in the car.He would never return to Apartment 9 in the Town Park Plaza North Condominiumsin the Overtown section of Miami, and he would not see his mother for 18 years.For the next three years, Gilbert lived in the house his father had grown up inon Cherry Street in West Tampa. His grandmother, Fannie Lee Arenas, raised himwhile Gilbert Sr. tried unsuccessfully to forge an acting career. When Gilbertwas 7, his father had a romantic notion of going to Hollywood and becoming ahuge star. Without an agent and armed only with an industry guide that he usedto locate studios, Gilbert Sr. and his young son wound up homeless for threenights in Burbank, sleeping in the blue Mazda RX-7 hatchback he had drivenacross the country.Gilbert Sr. eventually got a job at an office furniture store and was able tomove with his son into the Brookstree Apartments in Van Nuys, where they livedfor several stable years until Gilbert's emergence as a basketball player.ARENAS'S HIGH SCHOOL COACH, HOWARD LEVINE, handed me a dozen photos and two DVDsthis past March, saying, simply, "This is who Gilbert was."We had just finished eating at a Chinese restaurant on a rainy night inDominguez Hills, Calif., where Levine had performed in a Frank Sinatra tributeband, replete with tux and tails. "It's what I do," he said, as he unfastenedhis bow tie.He recalled the first time he saw Arenas play in 1996, during a summer leaguegame. "The first 10 minutes, there was this incredible explosion," he said. "I'dseen it maybe once or twice before in my life. And this lateral movement thatwas smooth. It was not jerky or anything that came from a 14-year-old kid. Hewas probably only a half-inch taller than me, maybe 5-9 1/2. But I knew."Levine immediately pulled Arenas into a vacant corridor outside the gymnasium."I don't know you from Adam, Gil," he recalled saying to Arenas. "I don't knowyour background or anything else about you. But watching you play, I know if youreally work at this thing, you have a shot at the NBA. I'm not going to give youthat line to make sure you play over here. I've seen a lot of basketball playersover the years, but I've never seen one like you. If you put your mind to it andwork at it, you can play in the NBA."Arenas says now that Levine was so earnest that he had no reason to doubt him."In my mind, I was like, 'Really? I could be in the NBA? Cool. I mean, wow.' Whosays that to someone at that age?"Levine became a seminal figure in Arenas's development. Besides Gilbert Sr., hewas the first person who understood and appreciated Arenas's talent andpotential. That set him apart from most other high school coaches in SouthernCalifornia.Arenas was short and skinny as a young teen, unable to crack 5-foot-8 until highschool. He would show up at popular summer basketball camps such as SouthernCalifornia's annual Pump-N-Run as a virtual unknown among 200 larger, tallerkids, many of whom were being recruited by prestigious area high schools. "Noone ever knew who I was, but I still ended up making the camp all-star team,"Arenas recalls.His first genuine slight in basketball came his freshman year while failing tostart on the junior varsity at well-regarded Birmingham High School in Van Nuys.Al Bennett, the school's longtime varsity coach, made it clear to Arenas and hisfather that Gilbert would never play for him, Arenas says, and that he simplydid not have the tools to play in a highly disciplined offense. Bennett doesn'trecall any such conversation, but he acknowledges feeling that Gilbert wouldplay more at another school. Within months, Gilbert Sr. moved to a new district,and Gilbert transferred to Grant High School in Burbank to play for Levine.In an offense Levine built around him as point guard, Arenas averaged 22 pointshis sophomore season, 29 his junior season and more than 32 points per game hissenior season. One spectacular game in February 1998, during his junior year,catapulted Arenas into conversations regarding the best high school players inthe United States.Against Crenshaw, a national power, he scored 42 points on a buffet of pillowyjump shots and improvisational layups. He used Crenshaw's players as trafficcones. As Levine remembered, fans at the game were screaming in wonder everytime Arenas scored, even though Grant lost by 39 points.In another game as a junior, Arenas scored 46 points, grabbed 11 rebounds andhad 10 steals and 14 assists -- in basketball parlance, a quadruple-double.But none of the numbers do the DVDs justice. A bashful, 17-year-old kid inbraces fills up the screen, in utter awe of the Los Angeles sportscasterinterviewing him. The words overlay amateur video of a Grant High game. In onesequence, Arenas, rather than actually coming down with a defensive rebound,pirouettes in midair and swats the ball past half court to a streaking teammate.But the other kid blows the layup.Suddenly, a figure comes into the camera frame, rising up over three opposingplayers, throwing the ball down with two hands. Arenas had covered the length ofthe floor, dunking back a miss he had rebounded on the other end of the court.Levine's days as Arenas's mentor were coming to an end. "I knew I was done withGilbert when he finally beat me in free throws," the coach said. "We shot 100one day. I really got into an incredible rhythm, you know, just flowing. I[made] 96. Gilbert went for 98."AMONG THE COLLEGE BASKETBALL POWERS IN HIS OWN BACK YARD, neither UCLA nor USCseriously recruited Arenas, which stung the young star. He attended summerschool between his junior and senior years to make sure he would be academicallyeligible for an NCAA Division I program. But that meant he missed most of theelite summer camps for prep basketball talent, including the Adidas camp in NewJersey and the Nike camp in Indianapolis, where the country's top high schoolplayers are evaluated.Arizona became interested in Arenas only after Coach Lute Olson was spurned bytwo high-profile recruits. The previous season, Olson had started Ruben Douglas,a freshman point guard, also from Burbank, who appeared to have locked up theposition for the foreseeable future.When Arenas accepted, coaches at other schools questioned his decision to signwith the Wildcats, who three years earlier had won the national championship."They told him he would play zero minutes for me," Olson says.The perception that he would sit on the bench at Arizona became a powerfulmotivation for Arenas. He ditched the No. 25 he had worn in high school in favorof 0. The zero-to-hero theme was born."I made myself into what I thought was a big-time player, and nobody in L.A.seemed to care or believe I was any good," Arenas says. "When I started hearingI wouldn't play in college, I would just let it simmer inside me and then belike, 'Okay. That's what you think? Okay.' The number zero was the only way Icould express that."After the first few days of practice, Olson says, he realized a driven Arenaswas better than Douglas, who became disenchanted splitting time with Arenas andby midseason transferred to New Mexico.From the moment Olson gave him free rein in the offense, Arenas delivered. InDecember of his freshman year, he was named the most valuable player of thepreseason NIT tournament at Madison Square Garden -- scoring 20 points againstKentucky in the title game, distributing to teammates and displaying a guile andsavvy belying his 17 years."When most freshmen would be scared to death, he goes in there like he owns theGarden," Olson recalls.In two seasons, he averaged 15.8 points a game and helped lead Arizona to thenational title game his sophomore year against a veteran Duke team that defeatedthe Wildcats to win its third championship in 11 years. The 19-year-old Arenaswas torn about whether to stay at Arizona or jump to the NBA. When his futureagent and at least two NBA teams told him he would be chosen in the first round,he declared himself eligible for the 2001 draft. Olson believed Arenas had anNBA game, but thought one more year at Arizona would enhance his draft status.The difference between being a first- and second-round pick in the NBA ismonumental. Players selected among the first 30 picks are slotted into a salarystructure that guarantees the first three years of their contract, which oftenspirals into the millions. Second-round picks sign for league-minimum salariesand must make the team's roster before they are fully compensated.Believing he would be selected in the first round, Arenas took out a loan, spenttens of thousands of dollars on a customized Cadillac Escalade and began livinglike a lavish NBA millionaire. The night of the draft, he sat crestfallen whenhis name was not called in the first round. At No. 31, he was the first pick ofthe second round by the Golden State Warriors.He would have to wait four months to make the team before he could begin to payoff his creditors. Two guards taken ahead of him that day were North Carolina'sJoseph Forte, at No. 21, and Southern Methodist's Jeryl Sasser, at No. 22.Neither is still playing in the NBA. Arenas's oft-maligned Wizards teammateBrendan Haywood was selected at No. 20. That year, Michael Jordan and theWizards chose first and plucked Kwame Brown, who signed a four-year deal worth$17.3 million."I was emotionally destroyed after not getting drafted" in the first round,Arenas says. "It wasn't just the money and the fact that I had started spendinglike crazy. There were other things going on no one knew about."Sometime before he was drafted, Arenas says, he learned his then-girlfriend hadbeen intimate with two other players already in the NBA."So she's sleeping with them two; I just got drafted; I'm trying to make abasketball team; I just bought this Escalade; and I don't have any money,"Arenas says. "I don't have a guaranteed contract. My life is just goingdownhill."I decided right then: The only way I'm going to repay her is to become big.Cheating on her is not going to do anything. So I dedicated myself to becomingbetter. Half of that pain was in the gym every day."Arenas held off from ending the relationship until the day he made the Warriorsteam and signed his first contract, a two-year, no-cut deal for theleague-minimum salary of $375,000. He says he had rehearsed his finalconversation with his girlfriend for months. "I was playing the whole scenarioout. I finally called her up: 'I totally forgot to tell you two weeks ago thatwe're not together and I'm moving to California, so buh-bye.'"MIDWAY THROUGH HIS FIRST SEASON AT GOLDEN STATE, Arenas looked like a hard-luck,second-round pick. Nursing a severely sprained ankle, he was unable to practiceand was put on the injured-reserve list. Reporters covering the team, who hadheard his earlier boasts that he was going to start at point guard and knew ofhis love for locker-room pranks, mocked him for his bravado and silliness.The Warriors referred to Jason Richardson as the "good rookie," which leftArenas with the "bad rookie" label. Arenas seemed to delight in it. Asked onemorning to perform the mundane task of bringing doughnuts to the veterans,Arenas went by Krispy Kreme, walked into the locker room giggling and whisperedto Richardson: "Yo, dawg, don't eat these. Whatever you do, don't eat 'em."The veteran players dug in and began spitting them out as Richardson and Arenasrolled on the floor laughing."Gilbert licked every one of them, then he put talcum powder on the top to makeit look like powdered sugar," Richardson recalls. "I couldn't believe it."There was also a more troubling side to Arenas's life that few knew about.In December 2002, Mary Frances Robinson came to a Warriors-Heat game in Miamiand stood behind a security guard a few feet from where the players warm up."Gilbert!" Robinson yelled. "I'm your mom! I'm your mom!"The shaken 20-year-old NBA player found the woman's gaze and returned to thelayup line. After the game, Robinson met Arenas near the team bus, collapsinginto his arms, crying inconsolably as she apologized for abandoning him almost18 years earlier. He held her up and kissed her on the cheek as she gave him hertelephone number. Arenas gave the piece of paper to his father, who then calledRobinson to see if she was indeed who she said she was."Don't try to force yourself to find Gil [again] because he's working rightnow," Gilbert Sr. recalls telling Robinson when he spoke to her. He said, "He'snot even stopping for me because I understand the mission he's on." Robinsonhonored Gilbert Sr.'s request. "Her getting in contact again, it all sounds goodnow," Gilbert Sr. told me last year. "It really does. You know what I mean? Butthere [were] some days he needed to be held. He's doing fine now, but there[were] days he really needed to be held. She wasn't there. She was never aroundwhen I was struggling. Gilbert didn't come easy."Almost five years after that Miami encounter, Arenas has yet to speak with hismother.Meanwhile, between injury and no playing time, the first half of his rookieseason was a bust, and it wasn't until the Warriors' 41st game of the 82-gameseason that he got a genuine opportunity.Teammate Larry Hughes had injured his ankle, making room for another guard. Whenthe veteran Bobby Sura turned down the chance to start, saying he had becomecomfortable with his sixth-man role, Arenas went directly from the injured listto the starting lineup.In Arenas's second game as the team's floor leader, the Warriors lost to SanAntonio, but Arenas scored at will, outplaying Tony Parker, the Spurs' dartingpoint guard. On a losing team, Arenas began to stand out nightly, dumping inpoints and making clutch steals at the end of games.Within two years, he became one of the most sought-after guards in the NBAfree-agent market. In the summer of 2003, the Wizards won the bidding byoffering him a contract worth $65 million over six years.The misfortune of being chosen in the second round ended up benefiting Arenasfinancially. As a second-round choice, he was able to sign a deal after twoyears, while first-round players had to wait three seasons to seek a morelucrative contract. When Arenas's deal exceeded the contract given ShaneBattier, the No. 6 pick in the 2001 draft, the NBA and the players union alteredthe collective bargaining to prevent such disparities in salary. The changebecame known as the Arenas rule.Within hours of agreeing to a contract with the Wizards, he was on a plane toresuscitate a franchise that had not won a playoff series in nearly two decades.THE WIZARDS WERE IN MAJOR TRANSITION WHEN ARENAS CAME ABOARD IN THE SUMMER OF2003. Abe Pollin, the NBA's senior owner, who bought the franchise in 1964, hadrecently fired Michael Jordan as the team's general manager -- and Washingtonwas split over whether Jordan's imperiousness had led to the firing or whetherPollin had simply used and disposed of the greatest player in the history of thegame.Eddie Jordan, then the Wizards' new coach, acknowledged to me this past Februarythat he did not originally want Arenas to lead his team. Arenas wasturnover-prone and not known for his defense. His play vacillated betweenexplosive and erratic. Also, Jordan had heard that Arenas was immature. Jordanwanted a more stable, veteran presence running the offense.Yet by Arenas's second season, the Wizards' stench of multiple losing seasonswas gone. He was named to his first all-star team, along with teammate AntawnJamison, and his last-second, pull-up jumper to beat the Chicago Bulls in Game 5of the Eastern Conference first-round playoff series in May 2005 was a harbingerof big shots to come.Arenas began to be viewed less as a no-conscience shooter and more as atremendous competitor and an elite scorer. But he was still feeling aggrieved.When he was not voted onto the all-star team in 2006 by the Eastern Conferencecoaches, he called it the ultimate snub. He eventually was named to the team asan injury replacement for Jermaine O'Neal, but Arenas held onto the resentment.From the high school coach who told him he would not play on the varsity, to thepeople who doubted his chances of ever getting off the bench at Arizona, to hisfall to the second round of the NBA draft, to his inauspicious beginning atGolden State, he had collected slights like badges -- remembering each one andthe wound it caused his ego.There was still rejection to come. He was named to the U.S. national team in thesummer of 2006 and spent part of that time in grueling tryouts withcontemporaries LeBron James, Dwayne Wade and Carmelo Anthony. But he fell out offavor with Mike Krzyzewski, the Duke icon hired to coach the team, and the restof the U.S. coaching staff.When a nagging groin injury sidelined him for a few days in South Korea, he wasencouraged to return home by Jerry Colangelo, the head of USA Basketball.Neither Colangelo nor Krzyzewski would use the term "cut" then, and Krzyzewskihas not explained the decision since. Being one of the 24 players selected tothe national team meant Arenas would be eligible to represent the United Statesin future international competitions -- including the 2008 Beijing Olympics. Butbeing cut is essentially how Arenas viewed it. The hurt he felt went much deeperthan basketball, he says."I had done everything they asked and just felt like: 'You can't use me againstsome of these international teams? I'm tearing up the NBA, and you've decided Ican't help you?'" he says. "I finally thought I had proved myself as one of thebest players in the world, and it turns out I was wrong. At least in theirminds."That final slight, he says, helped stoke the fire that burned through lastseason."I never got mad, broke anything, committed any crimes," Arenas says. "I justput my anger and resentment into basketball. Even the stuff from my childhood.To this day, that's how I get everything out, let everything go."In the past 18 years, just three NBA players have had three 50-pointperformances within a 15-game span: Michael Jordan, Gilbert Arenas and KobeBryant. Arenas has clearly evolved into one of the top 10 talents in the league.He will shoot from anywhere, anytime, and the higher the degree of difficultythe better. He not only broke Monroe's franchise record for points in a gamelast December -- erupting for 60 in an overtime victory over the Los AngelesLakers -- five nights later, he dropped 54 points on the Suns in Phoenix.Arenas finished as the league's third-leading scorer last season. For the firsttime in his career, fans -- not coaches or the commissioner -- sent him to theall-star game. With every accomplishment, the criticism and the slights arefading away. With each game-winning jumper, another detractor is silenced.Universal acceptance and praise now leave Arenas in a position to which he iswholly unaccustomed. His motto has expired.Or has it?"AM I THE UNDERDOG?""I don't know if I'm the underdog," he said, sitting in his hotel room, pausingto think about the question. "Am I?"Before last spring's injury, Arenas signed an eight-year, $40 millionendorsement deal with Adidas International. In addition, next year he willbecome a free agent and will likely command a $100-million-plus contract. Arenassays he intends to stay in Washington. Except for coaching concern that hisplayful demeanor detracts from his ability to be a team leader, no one isdismissing Arenas. He is running out of people to create artificial motivationagainst."Mentally, I've convinced myself I'm still the underdog. I'm not the No. 1person in the league. I'm not the No. 1 scorer. Someone else is. Even if Ifinish No. 1, I still have to find something else."Paisley Benaza is Arenas's consultant for marketing and business ventures. Shewas director of operations and client management for his former agent, DanFagan, until she left that job to return to school and pursue a career as aneducational psychologist."Crisis intervention-type stuff," she says, smiling. "It's relevant to what I'vebeen doing the last six years."Her first day in Fagan's office in 2001 was Arenas's first day as a client.They became close friends. Benaza was so moved by Arenas's resilience in hislife and career that she began putting a presentation together for Adidas nearlytwo years ago. She had heard about the sporting goods company's "Impossible IsNothing" campaign and remembers saying to herself, "That's Gilbert."It would be two years until the sneaker and apparel giant grasped what Benazaknew all along: Arenas was a living example of a marketing catchphrase, the mostreal piece of advertising imaginable. In December, as Arenas began his rise toan otherworldly level, Benaza watched Arenas's coming-out party as an NBAsupernova. It came, officially, at the Staples Center in Los Angeles againstBryant and the Lakers -- the player whose posters he'd tacked on his wall as akid and the team for which he always dreamed of playing.After shooting the Lakers down in overtime and scoring 60, he bowed to JackNicholson and the crowd at midcourt."About a month later, he called me up one day and said, 'I'm starting,'" Benazasays. "I said, 'Like a business venture?' Gilbert said: 'No, all-star. I'm astarter. Can you believe it?' It was like a little kid that couldn't believethat was happening to him. He was so excited."And as the rewards for his work and perseverance keep piling up, much higherthan the resentments, Arenas faces a new challenge: If all his survival skillsare honed for dealing with adversity, how does a man who learned rejection as aninfant -- and who, in ways real and imagined, continues to see patterns ofrejection -- suddenly cope with prosperity?"I AM GILBERT ARENAS, AND THIS IS MY STORY," the commercial intones. As a sweet,lazy guitar riff builds, Arenas uses a felt-tipped, black marker to draw acartoon portrait on clear plexiglass. The bearded, squat figure, which looksremarkably like his father, becomes animated, its actions and events mirroringhis words."The first 40 games of my career, I sat on the bench . . . They thought I was azero. Instead of sitting there being bitter, I just practiced, practiced. If noone believes in you, anything you do is a positive . . . The reason I wear No. 0is because it lets me know that I need to go out there and fight every day."At the end of the Adidas spot, an angelic smile crosses Arenas's face. A lopingdrumbeat and violin strings finish the background music, which is now bluesy,soulful. He traces the 0 that completes the written phrase "Impossible is 0." Itmay be the most genuine commercial starring an athlete in the past decade.By using Arenas in the campaign, Adidas is emphasizing that it's okay to startfrom the bottom. The struggle makes succeeding that much sweeter.Arenas's "Impossible Is Nothing" ad debuted in March, when he spent three hoursof an afternoon in a small theater on the upper level of the Verizon Center. Inits ongoing attempt to battle Nike, Adidas had neared completion of itsendorsement deal with Arenas. But the holdup was the shoe design. Two designersopened a duffel bag full of bright colors and wild patterns. The goal was tohave the five players who were part of Adidas's "It Takes Five" campaign --Arenas, Kevin Garnett, Tracy McGrady, Chauncey Billups and Dwight Howard --pitch and wear the same shoe. Arenas didn't like it."Well, I understand the concept," he told the two 20-something designentrepreneurs. "But this league is so individual. You can't have my shoe,Kevin's shoe, all looking the same. Mine's low top. We need individuality,something that represents solely me.""We'll get to that," said one of the reps. "Right now, though, this is what wegot. But, you know, we got your back. When we go back, we'll talk to them aboutwhat you want. But right now . . ."Arenas shrugged his shoulders. He eventually picked a crazy pink fluorescentshoe he thought would suit him. The Adidas crew stared at the ground, deflated."I'm trying to tell them, 'You've been in second for the longest,'" Arenas toldme later. "The NBA has a contract with Adidas for the next 10 years. This is agolden opportunity. Let's go a different route."Two weeks later in his hotel room in Indianapolis, Arenas, who had just seen thefilm "300" by himself the night before, got on the phone with the Adidas people.He told them to go see the movie."Three hundred men fought against a nation," he said. "They didn't win thebattle, but they won glory. That's what we need to do. We're not beating Nikenow. We can beat them in 10 years. That's what I'm trying to get [Adidas] tounderstand. And they're trying to do this little campaign, put all their guys inthe same shoe."Now, sitting in his room, Arenas the pitchman was talking. He had an idea for acommercial in which a college coach recruits the five of them to play for him."Bob Knight, an Adidas guy, he's the recruiter," Arenas said. "We all have thatwarrior look. We look muscular and cut up. It's like the Fantastic Four. Now,I'll be the Flash, the fast one; I'm burning. T-Mac is the Hollywood-lookingguy. Kevin Garnett is Stretch Armstrong, because his arms are so long he candunk from half court. Dwight Howard is Baby Boom. When he walks, his part callsfor the ground to shake. He's the young one who's strong for no reason. The rimsbreak."A guy like Tim Duncan is Xavier. He can outthink you. Because that's hispersonality, he's just a methodical thinker. You're the mind-controller."And it's like we're attacking Nike. This is where you have to bring it now."How in the world could anyone fit such imagery into a 30-second spot?"That's their job," Arenas said. "I can't do everything for them."IN THE LOBBY OF THE TEAM HOTEL IN INDIANAPOLIS, 18-year-old Jared Levi waswaiting for his philanthropic donor. He met Arenas in Chicago some time ago byknocking on his hotel room door.Rather than shoo the kid away, Arenas listened to his pitch. Levi had reproducedhundreds of 8x10 action photos of Arenas. If he would sign them, Levi and hisfriend would use the profits from those pictures to put themselves throughcollege, they said."And he did it," Levi said, adding that he was blown away that Arenas actuallypaid attention to the enclosed written directions -- where to sign on thephotos, what kind of pen to sign with, anything to maximize their value. "I'mactually going to get into the University of Illinois at Chicago because ofhim."It is not uncommon for professional athletes to create their own foundations,for charitable and tax purposes. Arenas has his own charity -- the Zero Two HeroFoundation, which, among other things, provides money to Washington area gradeschools. (He pledged $100 a point he scored.) He also serves as a reading mentorin the league's community service outreach program, NBA Cares. But it is hisday-to-day encounters with his fans -- five- or 10-minute segments of his timeand generosity -- that separate Arenas from most of his fellow players.Since Michael Jordan's second retirement, in 1999, and the labor standoffbetween owners and players that lopped 32 games from the 1998-99 season, the NBAhas worked hard to combat an image problem: The public feels no sense ofconnection with many of its players.Nowhere was this dynamic more evident than in the November 2004 brawl at thePalace of Auburn Hills, where a Detroit Pistons fan hit Indiana forward RonArtest with a beer, and a melee broke out between players and spectators.The free-for-all between the Denver Nuggets and New York Knicks at MadisonSquare Garden last season brought back the NBA-thug stereotypes. Telegenicsmiles were out; death stares and haymakers were in.Even two of the league's anointed torchbearers -- LeBron James and CarmeloAnthony -- have had missteps that hurt their personas. Anthony threw a suckerpunch in the Garden fight and was suspended for 15 games; after former playerJohn Amaechi announced he was gay, James said that he couldn't trust a teammatewho hid his sexuality.Kobe Bryant has evolved into the game's most breathtaking talent, and whateverjeers were once reserved for the player brought up on a sexual assault charge inColorado -- a charge that was later dropped -- have almost completelydissipated. But, given well-documented tensions with former Lakers teammateShaquille O'Neal and a recent YouTube vent echoing Bryant's bizarre tradedemands, Bryant is continually fighting the perception that he is aloof andunhappy."Kobe's the best player in the world, but a lot of people don't like hisattitude," Arenas says. "That's where he falls. But I feel that if you come intothis league with a good attitude, you leave with a good attitude. People respectthat . . ."When we're out of this league, the same people you pushed away are the samepeople who are going to push you away. Your name is not going to be as biganymore . . . It's not like you're going to be in this league forever."The People-Pleasing Express was up and running during last year's NBA all-starweekend in Las Vegas, where Arenas continued his campaign to become thecommoner's champion. At a practice of Eastern Conference all-stars, Arenasplucked 100 customized Agent Zero jerseys he had obtained from the NBA from abox and traipsed up and down the court, flinging jerseys to the crowd, wheregrown-ups fought over them like squealing, 13-year-old girls.During a timeout in the game, Arenas suddenly ran over to a trampoline beingused by a mascot and grabbed a ball. He lunged off, threading the ball betweenhis legs, and completed a windmill dunk -- a bizarre and highly dangerous actthat was surely a first in all-star game history. Who else but Arenas would riskserious injury for the sole purpose of delighting a crowd in an exhibition game?Benaza, watching the scene unfold in Las Vegas, said: "The whole weekend, allyou heard from most of the players and their people were, 'It's awful. We haveto walk through crowds in the casinos.' Gilbert loved it. He ate it up. That washis world."WILLIAM "BLUE" ROBINSON SHARED A CRIB WITH GILBERT AS A BABY, and he wanted tomeet his famous brother again. Blue was one of seven children -- by fourdifferent men -- who Mary Frances Robinson gave birth to after she had Gilbert.In the same Overtown apartment where Gilbert's father picked up his son 22 yearsearlier, Blue sat next to his mother as she sobbed while talking aboutabandoning Gilbert."She was young and immature," Blue, now 23, told me. "She was a street personall her life. She knew she couldn't take care of him, so she gave him up. If Gilgot any questions, you can have him call me." He paused for a moment, droppinghis nonchalant veneer."Is Gil asking questions?"I said I would pass Blue's number along. As we sat there, Mary Frances Robinsondid not dispute having troubled years around the time Gilbert was an infant. Shesaid she occasionally drinks beer now, but had been off drugs for several years.Now, months after I gave him his half brother's number, Arenas says he has lostit. "And I think I know why. I don't want to open that door right now. It's notthe time."After the fact, he was tipped off that one of his two sisters had attended thefinal game the Wizards played in Miami last season, but he never saw the girl,who is now 16. "I didn't even think about it," he says. "I'm not sure ofanybody's motives right now."In January, Arenas threw himself a $1 million birthday party at Love, a hot clubin Northeast Washington -- a party that Diddy and other hip-hop icons attendedand which was the source of endless national buzz for weeks before and after. Atone point, he grabbed a microphone and yelled, "Get drunk and make baddecisions," as the crowd howled with laughter. He then went home alone.I ask Gilbert how it is that the public extrovert -- the same guy who rips hisjersey from his torso after each game and tosses it into the stands -- can besuch a private introvert. He says that he likes giving of himself to people. "Iwant that love" they give back, he says.When I asked if he retreats when people get too close, he says, biting his lip-- in a way that a young boy who is afraid to admit he likes a girl might --"Um, yes."His inner circle is small, mostly three people. There's Benaza, John White, ahigh school friend who lives with Arenas in a 10-bedroom Virginia spread and hasbecome his personal assistant, and Gilbert Sr. He fired Dan Fagan, the onlyagent he's had in the NBA, in the summer of 2006, over concerns Fagan was notpromoting him aggressively enough.Benaza is the only person whose call he always returns, and that's because shedemanded it almost two years ago. She sat down with Arenas after he sank theBulls in Chicago with his last-second shot and told him, "Things are going tochange.""I told him people are going to start knowing your name, that you're not just abasketball player anymore," she says. "You're a professional athlete whom peoplewant to know and endorse. I told him when my name flashes on the cellphone, wehave a 30-minute rule to return the call. He just switched gears after that,became more aware."He's still childlike, and he still remembers what he dreamed about the NBAgrowing up. But I think he's matured in the last three years. And either way --good choices, bad choices -- I'm going to be there for him."Gilbert Sr. says there was a time "when I thought I lost my son to the world."It happened soon after Gilbert left Golden State for Washington, and Gilbert Sr.noticed a gaggle of friends suddenly interested in his newly minted $65 millionson."There was a lot of people who got in his ear about certain things, how lifeshould be," he says. "I didn't want to be part of it. I didn't want to be in theposse. At some point, I just figured you got to leave the nest to progress."Today, those temporary friends are gone, and Arenas and his father speak often."It's all love between me and Gil. I had a very different relationship with myfather, so I'm thankful for what we have -- especially because he's now afather."Alijah Amani Arenas was born in mid-March in Oakland. The boy was Arenas'ssecond child with Laura Govan, who gave birth to Izela Semaya in December 2005.Their relationship has been tumultuous in the seven years since they starteddating, but Arenas recently moved Govan and the children into his home. Which,given the couple's history, is major progress. After Izela was born, Govan hiredan aggressive lawyer -- who threatened to serve Arenas with a paternity suit onnational television during a Wizards game at Sacramento in March 2006 -- beforecooler heads prevailed. Arenas says he never thought of anything but providingfor Izela once he was certain he was her father."It's something you always want, but you always think, 'Man, I hope I can be agreat dad to him like my dad was to me.'" He says he realizes his mother leavinghas affected his life and relationships to some extent."I could have been against the world, 'Oh, my mom left me,' and blamedeverything on that. But I'm not like that."One of the few people he has spoken about his past with is Bruce Bowen, aveteran forward for the San Antonio Spurs. In the summer of 2006, the two weretrying out for the U.S. national team in Las Vegas and ended up sharing the busfrom the hotel to practice.Bowen, Arenas was surprised to learn, also became estranged from his mother at ayoung age. They had both seen -- and were deeply affected by -- "AntwoneFisher," a movie based on the true story of an angry young man who eventuallylocates the drug-addled mother who left him."He told me he had to suck it up because he wants to break that cycle with hiskids," Arenas says. "I could definitely relate.""There are issues he hasn't come to grips with yet," Bowen says. "For me, I wasable to deal with it by talking about it. That became therapeutic for me. ForGil, I just don't think he's ready yet. He didn't really say much when wetalked; he was just real short."I'm just glad he knows there are other people out there like him, who have toovercome that and move forward. When I told him about breaking the cycle, Imeant we can't afford to point fingers at others. It's up to us to do this."Bowen warns of a difficult adjustment ahead for Arenas. "In this game, so manyguys want their credit, respect, their street cred. For people like me and Gil,it goes deeper than that. We want people to recognize us for what we'veovercome. We carry that around. When what you've been taught is what you won'tbe, what you won't achieve, that you weren't good enough, your whole work ethicbecomes about proving people wrong. Which is great -- until you don't haveanybody to prove wrong anymore."When people start treating him great, I wonder how he'll deal with that."HOWARD LEVINE, ARENAS'S HIGH SCHOOL COACH, TELLS A STORY. "Lute Olson took measide after a UCLA game and said, 'What do I do?' I'm thinking: 'You're askingme, the piddly high school coach? You're Lute Olson.' He told me Gilbert wouldfight him on everything and just seemed to be pushing him away. He'll push tosee how far he can push."Olson remembers the conversation. "There was never a problem in regard toplaying," he says. "He did what you asked him to do. It was away from the court.It was his kid stuff that he would do and staying on top of him academically. Ifyou didn't have the thumb on Gilbert, he'd get himself in difficulty."Levine says he finally told Olson: "Gilbert has to know you're going to be withhim all the time. In Gilbert's mind, he's thinking, I want to see if you let mego, like my mom let me go. At some point, if you're going to get close toGilbert you have to tell him: 'You can push me away, you can fight me, but I'mnot going anywhere. I'm here for you. I'm staying.'"Mike Wise is a Post sports columnist. He can be reached at wisem@washpost.com Hewill be fielding questions and comments about this article Monday at noon atwashingtonpost.com/liveonline.More photos on the Web See additional images of Gilbert Arenas on and off thecourt at http://washingtonpost.com/magazine.