SAMUEL PEPYSThe Unequalled SelfBy Claire TomalinKnopf. 470 pp. $ 30Samuel Pepys (1633-1703) kept his celebrated diary for only nine years, from1660-1669, starting when he was 26. Written in shorthand -- with the racierepisodes related in a potpourri of languages ("mi mano was sobra her pectus, andso did hazer with grand delight") -- the book wasn't transcribed into readableEnglish until the 19th century and wasn't commonly available in itsunbowdlerized entirety until 1970. Despite a history of puritanical editing, thediary quickly established a reputation as one of those naughty literaryclassics, like Chaucer's "Miller's Tale," Defoe's Moll Flanders and Wycherly's"The Country Wife."Pepys, though married to the strong-willed, tempestuous, half-French Elizabeth,herself a beauty, does in fact regularly interfere with pretty serving girls,ladies' maids, tavern wenches, mainly by squeezing their breasts and pinchingtheir bottoms. But there's nothing particularly erotic or even bawdy about hisaccounts of 17th-century sexual harassment. He records a tumble with Betty Lanewith the same strict accuracy as he does his pleasure in a production of"Hamlet" or the purchase of a keg of oysters. In every sense, Pepys is very mucha man of accounts, in his work as a secretary to the Naval Board, in his closeattention to his household funds and in his depiction of his own life.Little wonder, then, that his days, no matter how full and varied, always seemto balance: A variant on "Up betimes and to the office" opens most of theentries, just as some form of the famous "And so to bed" closes them. Everythingin between is noted in precise factual sentences: Even when printed asregularized English, the prose sounds like shorthand. Pepys may sometimesconfess that he's sad or out of sorts, but he doesn't go maundering on and onabout it, or larding his reflections with Latin quotations, as Montaigne or SirThomas Browne might. Instead he's a pointillist, quickly daubing in the elementsof his daily life as a young careerist on the make in Restoration England.Though watchful of the world around him and especially attentive to the miens ofthe men who might advance his career, Pepys also possesses an irrepressiblegusto for life itself, and he works his hedonism hard: music-making,theater-going, flirting, drinking, paying social calls, reading, conversing anddisputing with his wife. They're all scribbled down in his quicksilver jottings,a nonstop barrage of data, like individual frames of film that the reader joinstogether to achieve a cinematic sense of life zipping along at fast-forward.No page of Pepys ever seems mediated or deliberative -- he's essentially a"facts, just the facts" kind of writer. But even as the rapid notation and hisrun-on style ("And . . . and . . .") give his diary vivacity, they alsosometimes frustrate: One hungers for expansiveness, quotation, detail, all thosematters at which discursive prose normally excels. He keeps you wanting just abit more than he delivers -- one of the secrets, perhaps, of his perennialfascination. Just what, for example, were those erotic tricks by which BarbaraVilliers, a k a Mrs. Palmer, a k a Lady Castlemaine, ensnared the king?Not that Pepys, that ardent playgoer, didn't possess a flair for the dramatic oran eye for a well-put-together scene. The at first halting, uncertain progressof the Great Fire is underscored by his own tentativeness and confusion,succeeded by a burst of frenetic activity. He closely observes the understateddrama of the royal barges landing at Whitehall, the King stepping ashore withthe Queen and Lady Castlemaine watching and everybody pretending to ignore oneanother. Best of all may be the series of diary entries that recounts theaftermath of Pepys's involvement with Deb, his wife's maid. As Claire Tomalinsays in her fine and engrossing biography, "I know of no other account ofmarital rage and jealousy to match this one." It opens with a mournful flourishin the middle of Pepys's write-up for Oct. 25, 1668:"And at night W. Batelier comes and sups with us; and after supper, to have myhead combed by Deb, which occasioned the greatest sorrow to me that ever I knewin this world; for my wife, coming up suddenly, did find me imbracing the girlcon my hand sub su coats. . . . I wast at a wonderful loss upon it, and the girlalso; and I endeavoured to put it off; but my wife was struck mute and grewangry, and as her voice came to her, grew quite out of order; and I do saylittle, but to bed; and my wife said little also, but could not sleep all night;but about 2 in the morning waked me and cried."During the next weeks, Pepys's life becomes so hellish that he grows afraid togo home at night. Oddly, though, in spite of all the accusations and denials andgeneral despair, the errant husband and his wronged wife have sex "more timessince this falling-out then in I believe twelve months before -- and with morepleasure to her then I think in all the time of our marriage before." Such arethe strange byways of passion.Because Pepys's diary spotlights his young manhood so brilliantly, it is easy toforget about his impoverished youth or the last thirty-odd years of his publiclife. Though Tomalin admires the diarist as an almost inadvertent genius ("themost ordinary and the most extraordinary writer you will ever meet"), she frameshis self-portrait within the context of the times and his entire public career.To explain how a tailor's son rose to power as, roughly, a cabinet minister incharge of naval affairs, she must describe the Civil War, Cromwell, themachinations to restore Charles II and the impact of the plague. She details thesystem of patronage, bribes and quid pro quo that kept the Restoration's merryworld spinning along. She shows how the older Pepys survived the Popish Plot --in which he was accused of being a Catholic rebel -- and she discusses hisinteractions with the great men of the period: kings, aristocrats such as hispatron the Earl of Sandwich, industrial magnates and eminent scholars (RobertHooke, Christopher Wren, Hans Sloane). Not least, Tomalin reminds us of Pepys'sphysical stoicism: He endured painful and delicate surgery for kidney stones at25, with a fair possibility of death, and worried for years that he was goingblind. Because reading and writing eventually caused him such ocular distress,he abandoned his diary.Not only an able biographer in the lively English style of Richard Holmes,Michael Holroyd and Victoria Glendinning, Claire Tomalin also possesses aparticularly graceful and pleasing diction, a proper sense of measure (by nomeans is her subject a wholly admirable, let alone a heroic, figure) and apiquant willingness to express her own views: We are left in no doubt as to howreprehensible she finds Pepys's sophomoric groping and pursuit of young girls,nor how tough-minded his wife and his later "companion" Mary Skinner must havebeen to put up with him.In itself highly agreeable reading, Samuel Pepys: The Unequalled Self shouldalso lead one to either start on or return to this most irresistible, this mostaddictive, of English diaries. Expect a good time:"It is strange what weather we have had all this winter; no cold at all, but theways are dusty and the flyes fly up and down, and the rosebushes are full ofleaves; such a time of the year as never was known in this world before here.This day, many more of the fifth monarchy men were hanged." *Michael Dirda's email address is dirdam@washpost.com. His online discussion ofbooks takes place on Thursdays at 2 p.m. on washingtonpost.com.