After sexually assaulting a housekeeper in a home invasion robbery in MontgomeryCounty, a registered sex offender forced his victim to stand under a shower towash away DNA evidence, prosecutors said in court Tuesday.The disturbing detail was among several Montgomery County prosecutors describedas they outlined charges against Kevin Ray, 33, of Fort Washington, who is asuspect in two January home invasions in Montgomery. Prosecutors called Ray, whois also accused in a Prince George's County home invasion this month, adangerous criminal whose convictions include involuntary manslaughter, robberyand a sex offense.http://www.washingtonpost.com/local/home-invasion-suspect-arrested-in-north-carolina/2012/01/14/gIQAkHwOzP_story.htmlRay, who was arrested Saturday in North Carolina, appeared at thehearing via closed-circuit television. He answered a judge's questions but didnot address the charges and was held without bond.In Wheaton, the robber targeted a woman carrying a baby. And in Bethesda, a14-year-old was in the house."There were . . .  threats to kill not only the women involved in these cases,but the children," Montgomery State's Attorney John McCarthy said after thehearing. "It was by design that these [the crimes] occurred in occupied homes."In the Wheaton case, a woman carrying her baby left her garage door open whileshe delivered a pie to a neighbor Jan. 10, prosecutors said. She returned tofind a man in a ski mask in the garage.The man demanded her money, debit card and car keys, prosecutors said. He triedto force her to drive him to an automated teller machine. She refused, and helocked her and the child in a garage closet and fled in the vehicle.The next day in Bethesda, prosecutors said, a housekeeper encountered a man whoforced her into the house at gunpoint. Inside, he confronted the homeowner andher 14-year-old son.Prosecutors said the robber threatened to kill the woman and teenager, andordered the boy to tie up his mother. He then tied up the housekeeper and theteenager, and sexually assaulted the housekeeper, prosecutors said.Prince George's police obtained a warrant charging Ray in a Jan. 13 homeinvasion in Temple Hills. Ray is accused of sexually assaulting a woman afterforcing his way into her home at gunpoint.Montgomery prosecutors said Ray told police that he had committed robberies inthe D.C. area with the aid of another man. After that man was killed in a recentrobbery, prosecutors said, Ray went on a home invasion spree.In the late 1990s and early 2000s, Ray was involved in similar attacks in PrinceGeorge's County. In 2002, Ray broke into a Clinton home, sexually assaulted awoman and robbed her daughter at gunpoint, court records show. He pleaded guiltyto third-degree sex offense and was sentenced to 7 1 / 2 years in prison.Ray was also convicted of breaking into a Fort Washington home and robbing twopeople in 1998 and in the fatal shooting of Theodore K. Newby, 19, after a fightat a party in Clinton in 1995, court records show.driessenk@washpost.comStaff writer Matt Zapotosky contributed to this report.