Are you sick yet of the political attack ads on television and radio? Me, too.It's bad enough that the poisonous tone in campaign commercials degrades ourcivic discourse.Even more galling is the degree to which both parties' ads routinely distort andsometimes blatantly ignore the truth.Ads about abortion and other women's issues in two races in our region offerclear examples in this election season of how candidates twist reality.In the Maryland governor's race, a TV ad by Lt. Gov. Anthony G. Brown (D)inaccurately claimed that his Republican opponent, businessman Larry Hogan,"wants to ban abortions."In fact, Hogan has said consistently that, if elected, he wouldn't try torestrict abortion. Although he personally opposes it, he considers access"settled law" in Maryland.What's more, Hogan publicly favored keeping abortions legal as long ago as 1992,according to a Baltimore Sun report at the time.(For the record, I strongly support a woman's right to choose. But I don't liketo see the issue misused, even by people whose position I share.)Across the river, in the strongly contested race in Northern Virginia's 10thCongressional District, Fairfax Supervisor John E. Foust (D-Dranesville) hasexaggerated the views of his opponent, Del. Barbara J. Comstock (R-Fairfax).A powerful Foust campaign ad showed a middle-aged woman addressing the cameraand describing how Comstock wants to outlaw abortion. That's correct.But the woman went on to say Comstock wants to ban it "even in cases of rape andincest." That might have been true at the start of the year - the evidence isfuzzy - but it's not anymore.In July, Comstock disappointed some conservatives by telling an antiabortiongroup that she supported an exception to allow abortions in cases of rape andincest and to protect the life of the mother.A convenient, election-year shift? Possibly. But that still doesn't justifyFoust misstating her current position.On the other hand, Comstock's campaign wins the dubious honor of airing theyear's most creatively misleading attack ads on a women's issue.By lifting out of context one unfortunate phrase spoken by Foust, Comstock hasunleashed a barrage of ads that managed to portray him as a sexist who looksdown on women.That's quite an accomplishment, considering that Comstock is the candidate whoseconservative record on social issues is a feminist's nightmare. As the Foust adnoted, Comstock even supported the notorious bill in the House of Delegates thatwould have required women seeking an abortion to first undergo a vaginallyintrusive ultrasound.Foust hoped to use that to win backing from moderate women in the contest tosucceed longtime Rep. Frank R. Wolf (R) in the district, which includes Loudounand parts of Fairfax and Prince William counties.But Foust handed Comstock a chance to turn the tables with a single tone-deafsentence at a campaign event in August. While trying to drive home the pointthat Comstock's work as a Washington lobbyist meant she was out of touch witheveryday Virginians, Foust said, "I don't think she's even had a real job."Whoops. Comstock has been a congressional aide, Justice Department spokeswomanand partner at a law firm. Not to mention a mother of three.Eager to clarify his position, Foust has now said, "We all know Barbara Comstockhas had real jobs."The damage was done. Comstock supporters have aired a sophisticated radiocommercial depicting a phone conversation between two typical Northern Virginiawomen - one stuck in traffic - discussing how outraged they are by such asupposedly insensitive comment.It's no surprise that both parties are willing to ignore or strain accuracy forthe sake of winning the support of women voters. The Democrats count on women asa key part of their political base. The GOP wants to wrest away as much of thatbase as possible."We're seeing across the country efforts on both sides of the aisle to motivatewomen voters," said Debbie Walsh, director of the Center for American Women andPolitics at Rutgers University."As the days get closer to the election, the effort to incite women voters abit, to give them something to react against, maybe by stretching the truth orreferring back to a position taken a very long time ago . . . that's part oftrying to engage those women," Walsh said.I know the politicians are behaving as usual. For the sake of integrity and theinterests of voters of both sexes, I just wish they'd treat the facts fairly.robert.mccartney@washpost.comï...OE For previous columns, go to washingtonpost.com/mccartney.