"Right now, nearly one in five women in America has been a victim of rape orattempted rape."  - President Obama, in a video that aired during the GrammyAwards, Feb. 8, 2015A number of readers have questioned this statistic asserted by President Obamain a public service announcement that is part of the White House campaign to endsexual assaults on college campuses. It's a different statistic from one we havepreviously examined - that one out of five women will be sexually assaultedwhile in college - though confusingly, it involves a similar "one in five"number.However, this figure is not about incidents during four years of college, butover a lifetime. So, what's the story on this statistic?The FactsThe statistic comes from one of several large surveys that have been conductedabout sexual violence in the United States. Rape is widely believed to be anunderreported crime, because of the stigma involved and the self-doubt ofvictims who may blame themselves. So researchers, mainly on behalf of thefederal government, have sought to reveal the actual rape statistics throughconfidential surveys.But there have been vast differences in the results, in part because there aretwo different kinds of surveys: criminal justice and public health. The criminaljustice approach seeks to identify an event (such as an assault), determine whenit occurred and learn as much about it as possible. The public health approachlooks more at behaviors and seeks to stimulate memories, but it is lessinterested in legal definitions.So a criminal justice approach might ask specifically whether someone was raped,but the public health approach would not ask that question directly, believingthat rape victims are reluctant to identify themselves (or may not even realizethat the act in question was a rape). The hope is that questions about behaviorswill increase disclosure and capture various types of unwanted sexualpenetration. But it also means the analysts - not the respondent - determinewhether the situation merits the label of rape.The survey that formed the basis of Obama's statement - the 2011 NationalIntimate Partner and Sexual Violence Survey (NISVS), released by the Centers forDisease Control and Prevention - was a public-health study. It estimated that1.9 million American women were raped in the preceding 12-month period. In fact,the survey said that more than 23 million women (19.3 percent) were raped duringtheir lifetime. (The survey's definition of rape included completed, attemptedand "alcohol- or drug-facilitated penetration.")But the National Crime Victimization Survey (NCVS), run by the Bureau of JusticeStatistics, estimated that there were 174,000 victims of rapes and sexualassaults in 2012 (and nearly 350,000 total rapes).In other words, Obama cited a government study that came up with a number ofwomen raped or sexually assaulted that was at least five times higher thananother government survey.However, the Justice Department survey has long been criticized as an inadequatemeasure of rape. A National Research Council report in 2014 offeredrecommendations on how to improve it, saying it was "highly likely" it wasunderestimating the number of rapes. While the NRC report made no judgment onthe CDC survey - since that was not part of its mandate - the panel noted howmuch higher the numbers were in the CDC report: "This differential between theNISVS and the other surveys is surprising."Both surveys were drawn from many interviews. The Justice Department survey wasbased on interviews with more than 143,000 people, with a response rate of 88percent. The CDC study was based on interviews with more than 14,000 people,with a response rate of 33 percent.The Justice Department survey is a classic example of a criminal justiceapproach. It asked how someone was attacked; if rape was mentioned, the surveyasked a series of questions about the incident. By reference, the actual numberof reported forcible rapes and attempted rapes was fewer than 85,000 in 2012. Soeven under this approach, researchers uncovered far more rapes than arereported.The questions in the CDC survey are much more open-ended, never using terms suchas "rape" or "sexual assault." For instance, one section asked "when you weredrunk, high, drugged, or passed out and unable to consent, how many people haveever â[#x20ac]¦ [series of statements describing various sex acts]."This question is interesting because the operative element is whether someone isunable to consent to sex. But given the wording, is it possible for a listenerto misinterpret it as a question about whether they had sex while drunk or high?The CDC thinks not."We have gone to great lengths to ensure that respondents understand these twocomponents - the use of substances and the inability to give consent - as partof the administration of these questions," said CDC spokeswoman Courtney Lenard."A scenario of consensual sex after drinking at a party, for instance, would notmeet the definition of what is included in this series of NISVS questions."Still, it turns out that almost 50 percent of the rapes reported by the surveydepend on this drunk/high/lack of consent section. More than 9 percent of thewomen - which adds up to an estimated 11.2 million people - were classified asrape victims as a result of this question. Lack of consent after alcohol abuseis certainly an important issue, one that college campuses are grappling with.But the figure cited by Obama depends on the outcome of this section of thesurvey.Digging into the report, one also finds interesting oddities.For instance, a form of "sexual violence" is men reporting that they were "madeto penetrate" someone else. Over the preceding 12 months, the survey estimated1.9 million men were made to have sex with someone else against their will -virtually the same number of women who were the victims of rape. (The CDC'sLenard said the "made to penetrate" category is a relatively new category thatis still not fully understood.)A White House spokesman said: "In his comment, the president says nearly one infive women have been the victim of rape or attempted rape.  When you combine thetwo instances - rape and attempted rape - the publicly available data from theCenters for Disease Control affirms that statement."The Pinocchio TestTo be technical about it, the "rape" category of the CDC report consisted ofrape, attempted rape and "alcohol- or drug-facilitated penetration;" one doesnot quite get to the one in five statistic without the third category. But bythe same token, under the CDC's definitions, the president could have simplysaid "rape" and still have correctly cited the report.But in this case, the president did not cite the report; he stated it as anactual fact. Granted, he was speaking in a public service announcement, wherefootnotes and caveats are generally not used. If he was trying to get people'sattention, he certainly did. But by the same token, by citing as fact theresults of a survey that may be overstated, the president runs the risk ofundermining support for his efforts to call attention to sexual violence.There's no such thing as a perfect survey, with completely accurate results -especially when the conclusions are determined by the interpretations ofanalysts. So the president earns a Pinocchio.For previous columns, go to washingtonpost.com/factchecker.