Dear Carolyn:Four years ago, I was raped when I was traveling by myself. I never gotcounseling, and now I feel like it was so long ago I should be over it. I don'tknow if I am, and I feel scared of meeting strange men. I can still manage anoccasional fling, but it's been years since I had a relationship. What can I doto get past this?-- Do I Really Need a Shrink?I don't like the word "need" in this situation, since there's no rule that saysyou can only get well with a shrink.But I'm wondering why, after a horrific violation and your clear struggle sinceto reassemble yourself, you wouldn't want to get some counseling. Simply becauseit's a readily available source of potential relief that you haven't yet tried.What it is not: a concession of weakness. A failure to "get over it." Anabdication of self. An invitation for further violation. An endorsement of NewAge blather. An act of defeat.When you choose to get help, when you choose a competent source, when you choosethe direction of treatment, you exercise the power your assailant could not takeaway. Willpower. Use it.And use the power of numbers. Your private agony has been felt by many beforeyou, far too many. But that's something you can use against the monster who didthis to you. Counseling is the most direct way for you to benefit from whatothers in your place have learned. (Try the Rape, Abuse & Incest NationalNetwork, 800-656-HOPE.) Grieve, learn, regroup, grow beyond who you were before,love someone. Live this man into irrelevance.Carolyn:When biological clocks are ticking, how long should I stay in a relationshipbefore I decide that the in-love thing isn't going to happen? I'm currentlycontent with dating my girlfriend and waiting to see what happens, although I dowant to get married when I meet the right person. She isn't pressuring me, butit's early. I'm sure at some point she will need to decide whether I'll be thefather of her children or if she needs to move on. My feelings for her don't runvery deep yet.-- Not There YetYou're extremely considerate to have this in mind, but you owe it to her not tohave this in mind.The decent approach is the same with any woman you date: Give her a chance, andend things as soon as you figure out she doesn't have one.Dragging things out may be a notch crueler to a woman whose fertility might bean issue, but since it's cruel regardless, you don't need more reasons to stopit, if that's what you're doing.Preparing yourself to flee at the first sign of just-friendship doesn't help,either, regardless of the reason. It deprives both of you of a chance forsomething great to develop slowly. Specifically dwelling on her age deprives herof a chance to be her.So, go with it.Really.No pressure.Write to Tell Me About It, Style, 1150 15th St. NW, Washington, D.C. 20071, ortellme@washpost.com, and join Carolyn's live discussion at noon Fridays atwashingtonpost.com/liveonline