"For the first time our competence and character are being evaluated by expertsand pundits while we fight."That was Joint Chiefs Chairman Gen. Martin Dempsey speaking frankly tofield-grade officers graduating June 13 from National Defense University (NDU)about what he called "this time of turmoil" when the military is "working hardto adapt to uncertainty and rapidly changing geopolitical, budgetary andcultural landscapes."President Obama said last week that he plans to reappoint Dempsey for anothertwo-year term. That makes it worthwhile to take another look at this career Armyofficer who likes to quote Yeats, is a straight talker on tough issues -including to Congress - and enjoys singing in public, as he did Memorial Dayweekend with a silly song about unicorns for hundreds of children whose fathersor mothers had died in combat.A 1974 West Point graduate and an armored cavalry officer who commanded forcesin Iraq and Afghanistan, Dempsey has a master's degree in English from DukeUniversity. He taught English at West Point, fought in Operation Desert Storm,was a special assistant to Joint Chiefs Chairman Gen. Hugh Shelton, and for twoyears trained and advised the Saudi Arabian national guard. He did the samerecently for Iraq's army and other security forces.Four appearances during the past five weeks give some insights into Dempsey'scharacter.At the NDU event, he raised questions for the military: "Winning our nation'swars is no longer enough. How we win is becoming as important as the fact thatwe win," Dempsey said. He didn't mention torture, killing innocent civilians,corruption in contracting or even sexual harassment of U.S. service personnel.He didn't have to; it's on everyone's mind.Dempsey recalled a 1991 talk when Gen. Norman Schwarzkopf told West Pointcadets, "I wish I could say that our profession of arms has always exuded highcharacter and competence, but it hasn't."Dempsey not so subtly drew a parallel between the past and Iraq/Afghanistan,saying, "As with Vietnam, negative impressions about our character eclipsed thecourage and sacrifices of many of the men and women who served honorably." Headded, "As we emerge from more than 10 years of war, we've got some rebuildingto do," which Dempsey compared to Yeats's famous quote about "the strugglebetween the swordsman and the saint."A day earlier, on June 12, Dempsey appeared with Defense Secretary Chuck Hagelin sessions with the Senate and House budget committees.Senate Republicans brought up Benghazi, the attacks last Sept. 11 against a U.S.consulate and CIA annex building in Libya that left four Americans dead,including U.S. Ambassador J. Christopher Stevens. Some GOP legislators have keptthe issue alive hoping to use it politically against the Obama administrationand/or as a failure of then-Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton should sherun for president in 2016.Sen. Ronald H. Johnson (R-Wis.) mentioned the testimony of a "whistleblower" whosaid that a special forces rapid response unit could have been on the scenewithin four to six hours after the first attack.Dempsey said, "I would not agree to that timeline. The travel time alone [fromwhere the unit was in Europe] would have been more than that and that's if theywere sitting on the tarmac."Rep. Tom McClintock (R-Calif.) challenged what he called too-constrained rulesof engagement in Afghanistan. "We're not allowed to pursue insurgents into amosque" he told Dempsey, adding that a World War II veteran told him that if aGerman had run into a church, "We would have blown up the church."Dempsey: "Despite what the veteran told you from World War II, it's never beenthe tradition in our country to use force indiscriminately. . . . Some of whatyou're referring to, I've seen myself . . . a good bit of it is misinformation."Rep. Vicky Hartzler (R-Mo.) asked about a report by Sen. Tom Coburn (R-Okla.)listing odd Army, Navy and Air Force research projects that she called "waste."Dempsey hadn't seen it, but said, "I'll be interested to see whether we put itin there or somebody else put it in there when it became part of the bill."That drew laughter from the audience because lawmakers have often pushed suchprojects on behalf of constituents.Last Thursday at a Pentagon news conference with Hagel, Dempsey explained hisposition on Syria, which has drawn criticism on Capitol Hill.Regarding a no-fly zone, he said, "My concern has been that ensuring thatSyria's airplanes don't fly addresses about 10 percent of the problem in termsof the casualties that are taken in Syria. And if we choose to conduct a no-flyzone, it's essentially an act of war, and I'd like to understand the plan tomake peace before we start a war."A less-public side of Dempsey was on display May 24 when he spoke to familieswho had lost loved ones over the past 12 years - part of the 1 percent ofAmericans who have borne 100 percent of the burden of the fighting.A young boy asked, "Why did you join the Army?""I thought it stood for the right things," Dempsey said. "That it would allow meto be around people who knew that there was something more important in lifethan just making money and having a job, who might actually some day have toprotect this country. Which by the way is exactly why your moms and dads joinedthe Army and in the case of some . . .  gave their lives."He told the adults, "It must be something extraordinary for you to listen to thenational anthem, because no one has had the experience of being handed a foldedflag. You have."And those of us who haven't experienced that don't know, really, what that - Ican't even conceive of what it must be like."pincusw@washpost.comFor previous Fine Print columns, go to washingtonpost.com/fedpage.