One was accused of a crime, and one pleaded guilty to being a cad, but thosequick minds in the infotainment business soon got Dominique Strauss-Kahn andArnold Schwarzenegger into the same story line:Sex and politicians!In which we commingle a true sex scandal (cheating pol fathers love child; keepssecret from wife, children, voters; wins office twice) witha seven-countindictmentfor criminal sexual assault (world finance leader seen as futureFrench president busted in alleged rape attempt on housekeeper who came to cleanhis swank hotel suite).CNN showcased Time magazine's upcoming cover: "What Makes Powerful Men Act LikePigs." Columnists blamed "manly urges" and "men behaving badly," and MSNBC addedboth men to its already robust rogues' gallery (which includes John Edwards,Eliot Spitzer, Mark Sanford, John Ensignand Chris Lee).Uh, no. One of these things is not like the other.When a term such as "sex scandal" is used to describe behaviors running thegamut from politically irrelevant to legally actionable, I'd say we've got aproblem. And the weird accident of timing here reveals how badly we stillconfuse consensual if illicit sex with violence against women.Until recently, we didn't have to worry so much about how to talk about thesexual misbehavior of prominent men. That's because until recently, we didn'ttalk much about it at all. But that certainly changed in the late 1990s, whenKenneth Starr broke the sexual sound barrier and catapulted talk of thongs andstubborn dress stains into the evening news.Who else but the deceptively prudish special prosecutor could have inducedgrannies and schoolchildren alike to gather around the family dinner table tocontemplate such eternal questions as whether it counts as an extramaritalaffair if your intern "performed oral sex" on you in your office (as the StarrReport  put it) but you didn't technically go "all the way" with her?Looking back, Starr's investigation proved pivotal. It paved the way for whathas become an unprecedented era of sexual disclosure. If once we found itdifficult to talk about scandalous sex acts, now we can't seem to stopourselves. And as the list of politicians whose legacies will be foreverasterisked grows, it's hard not to feel that all of this scandal-mongering hassullied not just those who have been caught with their pants down, but all of uswho have made these spectacles into ceaseless cable fodder by obsessivelywatching them unfold.There's good in our increased willingness to bare topics once taboo.  We nowtalk more frankly than ever about matters long shrouded in silence, secrecy andshame. Recall that two years after the Clinton scandal drew to a close, newsabout thewidespread sexual abuseof children by clergy in the Catholic Churchbegan to surface in the national and international press. The frankness withwhich these abuses have been discussed all around the world has been essentialin moving the process of redress forward. I can't help but wonder, would theseconversations have been possible in an era before the phrase "oral sex" enteredthe standard news vernacular?Now it's time to grow up some more, past the titillation and the guffaws over"hiking the Appalachian Trail," and suss out the difference between the rightkinds of uncomfortable conversations and the wrong ones. Put otherwise: When issex a scandal, and when is it something else?When you think about it, what makes a sex scandal a scandal doesn't really havemuch to do with the sex at all. The truth is, the events at the heart of mostsex scandals turn out to be pretty banal. Pare it down, and the story usually isa married man having sex with someone other than his wife. Sometimes that otherperson is a subordinate. Sometimes it's a stranger he paid for sex. Sometimesit's another man. In other words, it's nothing too out of the ordinary.What makes most of these stories newsworthy is not what happened, but who didit. We may hem and haw about the immorality of the act in question, but oftenthe real affront is the deception - the fact that someone presented himself oneway in public but acted a different way in private. There's humiliation, hurt,perhaps hypocrisy and reputational damage. Any criminal charges usually relateto the lies about the act, not the act.Hugh Hefner having sex with a woman young enough to be his granddaughter - andher twin! - may be gross, but it's not a scandal. It's who Hef is. But ananti-gay-rights legislator paying to have sex with another man - that's ascandal.In the case of Strauss-Kahn, however, the problem is not just one of character,it is one of deed. That's why Strauss-Kahn's apologists are hoping to convinceus that what he stands accused of doing isn't really how it happened at all.Attempted rape is such an ugly description of what must have taken place, theysay - just think about it in a more French way, as a simple case of "grandseduction" (and let's all pray that Fox doesn't pick thatone up for its nextreality-TV gambit).Given the timing of these two cases, comparisons are inevitable. But looking atthe former California governor and the former International Monetary Fund chiefside by side should reveal not a continuum of behavior but a clear distinction.Personal transgressions should not be casually conflated with attempted rape, asif one form of powerful male entitlement http://www.washingtonpost.com/opinions/the-trouble-with-men/2011/05/18/AFXJlX6G_story.htmlis equal to theother. That's why we should beware of commentators like Matt Miller, who,writing in The Washington Post, would have us believe that Schwarzenegger andStrauss-Kahn are united by a similar, and largely unsuccessful, struggle to keeptheir inner cavemen at bay.That's the evolutionary psychology equivalent of the "Twinkie defense," and it'slame.What we need to do is bring more precision to our definition of "sex scandal."When a powerful politician has an extramarital affair, it's a scandal. When apowerful politician sexually assaults another person, it's a crime.jawilliams@women.ucla.eduJuliet A. Williams is a professor of women's studies at the University ofCalifornia at Los Angeles and the co-editor of "Public Affairs: Politics in theAge of Sex Scandals."