Just how long is the reach of companies into workers' private lives andconversations? This worker thought his employer's reach was way too extensive.Q We were at a restaurant and the co-worker I was with, a white girl, made ajoke about the sexual prowess of her black fiance and I (a white guy) jokedback. Another co-worker at a nearby table, a black girl I had never met,overheard the conversation and reported it to company officials. I wasreprimanded and told that I could be fired if another "incident" occurred, butnothing happened to my lunch partner. We were off work grounds and notdiscussing work. Human Resources claimed that because I was talking to anemployee, even if it wasn't at work, they could discipline me. This makes nosense. The girl I was talking with was not offended in any way.A Lewis Maltby, president of the National Work Rights Institute in Princeton,N.J., said companies increasingly are trying to control at least some aspects oftheir employees' lives, chiefly whether they smoke outside of work, or sometimeswhether they have an occasional drink.But, he said, there is a counter-trend: More states are passing laws that, toone degree or another, prohibit companies from regulating employees' off-the-jobbehavior.Maltby said New York, Colorado and North Dakota have made it "specificallyillegal to discriminate against an employee for any legal off-duty conduct."Twenty-six other states and the District of Columbia have adopted lesscomprehensive laws, such as prohibiting employers from declaring that they won'thire people who smoke off duty.In this case, Maltby said, "I think the company is off base. This is not quidpro quo sexual harassment" in which, say, a boss demands a sexual favor inexchange for a promotion. "If this is sexual harassment, it's of the 'hostileenvironment' variety."But Maltby said that is not the case here either."It's got to be in the office, and it's generally got to be on duty," Maltbysaid, although harassment rules likely would still apply at an off-premisesoffice party or at a dinner with co-workers while traveling on company business."There's no law against being sexually or racially biased -- not that he was inthis case -- except in the workplace. You can't subject your co-workers to yourprejudice."The company's reprimand against him but not his lunch companion "sure smellslike gender discrimination," Maltby said. "It was politically easier for thecompany to go after the white male in this case."So what should this worker do?Maltby said he "should probably go back to HR and say they have no legal rightto do this and ask that the letter be removed" from his file. If refused, Maltbysaid, the worker could file a complaint with the Equal Employment OpportunityCommission.But before the worker does that, Maltby said, he ought to consider thisquestion: "Is he prepared to spend the next three years in court, or should helet it drop? Most companies don't take kindly to being challenged."-- Kenneth BredemeierE-mail your workplace questions to Kenneth Bredemeier atbredemeier@washpost.com. Discuss workplace issues with him Wednesday at 11 a.m.at www.washingtonpost.com/liveonline.