Excerpts from "the first rough draft of history" as reported in The WashingtonPost on this date in the 20th century.Two years after the executions of Hitler's henchmen in 1946, seven Japanese warleaders met the same fate after being found guilty by the Tokyo war crimes trialof numerous atrocities during World War II. While Japanese Emperor Hirohitoapproved of the decisions that led to war, he was never tried. He did, however,renounce his divinity and was demoted from sovereign to "symbol of the state."He died in 1989. An excerpt from The Post of Dec. 23, 1948:By Earnest HoberechtTOKYO (Thursday), Dec. 23 (U.P.) --Hideki Tojo and six other Japanese war lords who tried to conquer the world werehanged in Sugamo Prison today for the murder, torture and rape of millions.The Japanese partners in a conspiracy which left maimed and dead on battlefieldsfrom the Aleutians to Guadalcanal paid with their own lives between midnight and12:35 a.m.Tojo, who ordered the sneak attack on Pearl Harbor seven years and 15 days ago,climbed the 13 steps to the gibbet at half a minute after midnight. Ten minuteslater, he was declared dead.Bald, hatchet-faced Tojo, 64, was in a group of four hanged simultaneously. Theothers were Gen. Kenji Doihara, 65, so-called "Lawrence of Manchuria"; Lieut.Gen. Aikira Muto, 56, responsible for the rape of Manila, and Gen. Iwane Matsui,70, who directed the rape of Nanking and the murder of 200,000 Chinese in sixweeks.Doihara died first, at 7 minutes after midnight. Tojo was pronounced dead threeminutes later. Muto was declared dead at 11 minutes after midnight and Matsui at13 minutes after midnight.The second group, of three -- Gen. Seishiro Itagaki, 63, who starved prisonersin the Dutch East Indies; former Premier Koki Hirota, 70, a leader of the BlackDragon Society which spread terror throughout the Far East, and Gen. HeitaroKimura, 59, commander of Japanese forces in Burma -- entered the death chamberat 12:19 a.m.The traps were sprung at 12:20 a.m. and within 15 minutes all were dead. Kimurawas the last pronounced dead at 12:35 a.m.No newsmen were permitted inside the prison. Details of the war lords' last daysin jail and their final minutes of life were contained in a lengthy statementfrom Gen. Douglas MacArthur's headquarters issued hours after the executionstook place.An 11-nation tribunal set up by the Allies condemned Tojo and his six associatesto die for conspiring to wage aggressive warfare, for crimes against humanityand for atrocities against civilians and Allied troops. ...Their doom was sealed Monday when the United States Supreme Court refused to acton appeals by Doihara and Hirota.Tojo was the last of the three Axis dictators to die and the only one to bebrought to trial. He shot himself below the heart in a suicide attempt September11, 1945, but was saved for the gallows by American Army surgeons.This series is in a book that can be purchased online at www.washingtonpost.com/wp-srv/national/2000/collectors.htm or by calling 1-888-819-8879