Last month, after a young woman was sexually assaulted in Dupont Circle by acreep pedaling past her, I demanded that Washington's bicycling groperbe found.To their credit, D.C. police took the crime against photographer LizGormanseriously, especially after at least four more shaken women reported thesame type of attack in the same part of town.The police did interviews, took statements, watched hours of security videountil they froze the frame there - right there! - and found the jerk on thebike, his victim screaming next to him.Then they caught the guy they believe is responsible for the attacks. OscarMauricio Cornejo-Pena even told them: Yup, he did it. He was a most helpfulsuspect, even offering up some crimes the cops didn't know about."He admitted that he committed numerous similar offenses, possibly eight ormore," according to the charging documents drawn up by Officer AlexanderMacBean.He was charged with "misdemeanor sexual abuse (with aggravating circumstances),"which, according to D.C. Official Code, is punishable by jail time of "not morethan 180 days, and, in addition, may be fined in an amount not to exceed$1,000."That means that terrorizing women who are walking down the street, roughing themup and grabbing their privates gets you the same punishment as attending acockfight, impersonating a police officer, trespassing on someone's lawn orselling a fake Gucci purse.In the District, sentencing guidelines say that a person who breaks into avending machine or a parking meter should get more jail time (up to three years)and pay a bigger fine (up to $3,000) than a sociopath who violates women on thestreet.What does this tell you about what our society thinks of sexual assault?Apparently, Rep. Todd Akin (R-Mo.), the Senate candidate who caused a firestormby claiming that a "legitimate rape"rarely causes pregnancy, has plenty ofcompany in the Neanderthal department.The biking groper assaulted Gorman, 25, on a July afternoon as she was walkingdown the street in busy, pretty Dupont Circle. He came out of nowhere, behindher, with a swift and rough assault. She didn't see his face but heard himlaughing.She blogged about the perils of "walking while female,"and her story went viral.After I wrote about her, I was flooded withe-mails from other women who had beensimilarly assaulted, some of them decades ago. I realized the power of such anattack.The groper didn't stop with Gorman. During the following two weeks, at leastfour other women called the police to report similar attacks. In courtdocuments, each described a man who wore a pageboy cap, carried a green backpackwith strings for straps and rode a mountain bike.They told police that he grinned, laughed and mocked the women as he shoved andgrabbed them.One woman who was attacked by him said he "rode his bike in a very cocky,arrogant, confident and relaxed manner. He didn't speed off right after theassault," she told detectives. He waited and watched her scream.Another woman, who was assaulted twice in one attack (once from the front, thenfrom behind after circling around her) yelled at him and chased him down thestreet.Police were on the lookout in DupontCircle, and they spotted a guy with a green,stringy bag on a bike and stopped Cornejo-Pena.He gave them his driver's license and a wrong cellphone number. They took hisphoto and let him go. A few days later, after an investigation, they found theright phone number and called him in. He gave his statement after watching thesurveillance-camera video that the detectives had dug up.He acknowledged that it was him, the charging documents say. And guess what? Onetime, after he assaulted a woman, he went right back to his group of chessbuddies in Dupont Circle and watched them play, he told police.So what about Liz Gorman, they asked. The one back in July?He told police that he didn't remember her. So they didn't charge him with thatone. (And she's not too happy about that.)But then he bragged about a whole bunch of other assaults the cops didn't evenknow about. I've got to wonder whether he didn't try to high-five thedetectives, too.But the detectives didn't laugh. They charged him.Cornejo-Pena, who is 31 and works at a fancy hotel downtown, made too much moneyto qualify for a court-appointed attorney. So the judge sent him to a halfwayhouse and ordered him to stay away from the four victims on record.On Friday, he's scheduled to be in court to introduce his attorney.The truth is, he's probably not going to get any real jail time, said ChaiShenoy, a lawyer who specializes in sexual assault and who runs a group in theDistrict, Collective Action for Safe Spaces.Of the cases she has taken on, the ones where women are groped on Metro,violated on the street or attacked in their neighborhoods, she has never had acriminal conviction for that type of street harassment."We applaud the police for taking the crimes seriously, using their resourcesand working hard to make an arrest," she said. "But it's a double-edged sword.We want police to take these crimes seriously, we want prosecutors to take thesecrimes seriously and then, at the end of the day, we have sentencing guidelinesthat won't provide justice."Allison Leotta, who spent 12 years prosecuting sex crimes in the District beforebecoming a crime novelist, said the judge might take the alleged groper'snumerous cases and stack the penalties, giving him a couple years in jail."The problem is, it's a misdemeanor," she said. "And that doesn't take intoaccount how incredibly traumatizing this is for the victim. It's not like havingyour wallet stolen - this stays with the victim the rest of her life."In an election year when the meaning of "rape" is being discussed,I guess itshould be no surprise that our laws for this crime are inadequate. When it comesto punishing sexual assault, we have a long way to go.dvorakp@washpost.comTwitter:@petuladFor previous columns, go to washingtonpost.com/dvorak.