Carolyn:Recently, I was assaulted by an acquaintance while I was blacked-out drunk. Ihave little memory of the evening, but I know I did not consent to sex, told himno, and cried at one point. He doesn't seem to be aware that what happened wasreally wrong (and in fact criminal) and e-mailed me a few days later. I told himI didn't want to speak to him.I feel like I should tell him that he attacked me, that what happened was notjust a mistake to the extent that he was cheating on his fiancee, but a seriousviolation of me. And what about his fiancee? Does she have a right to know aboutthis? I don't want to ruin his life, but I am worried he will do this again tosomeone else.-- San Francisco1. Oh my.2. Tell him what you told me here, exactly. I'd say also to tell the police, butanytime you get the authorities involved you owe it to the accused to becertain, and I don't think you can be here, not after that many drinks.3. Tell him that if he doesn't talk to his fiancee, you will. Don't rat him out;just tell her there's something she needs to ask him about. The truth will meanmore to her if she hunts it down for herself. Even if he lies to her, you willat least have planted a doubt-seed.4. If this "ruins his life," he will have done it, not you. Repeat this untilyou believe it.These cover your responsibility to others -- which leaves your responsibility toyourself. That's a serious enough concern to warrant a rape crisis call if youfeel you need it and the stating of what I hope is obvious: From now on, say noto drinks No. 4 through 17, please.Hi Carolyn:Had a couple of dates recently with a fantastic young woman, but as we got toknow each other better, she decided she couldn't date an agnostic. Her faith istoo important to her. I don't really know what circumstances led us to betalking about such matters on our second date. Is that too much information toosoon?-- Va.Why, because she rejected you for it? Dangerous implication there -- thatinformation qualifies as excessive when you lose someone as a result. The flipside is even worse, that it's okay to withhold your true self if it means youget a third date. No no no.You say you don't know how faith came up. That means it arose in the naturalcourse of your conversation, and that's how it's supposed to happen. She gets toknow you, you get to know her. These are the mechanics of a date.It's when you tailor your responses to please or impress (or mess with) someonethat these mechanics break down. You don't need to be honest in bulk,necessarily -- we are entitled to some privacy, not to mention decorum -- but atleast honest in context. (Rule of thumb: If it's about who you are, like faith,then share; if it's not, like herpes, then save it for when it matters.) In thiscase, unfortunately, you know you handled things successfully precisely becauseyou failed.Write to Tell Me About It, Style, 1150 15th St. NW, Washington, D.C. 20071, ortellme@washpost.com, and join Carolyn's live discussion at noon Fridays at www.washingtonpost.com/liveonline