He's new on the job, entrusted with the boss's prize project, thrust into analmost unprecedented pressure situation and facing an adversary even hedescribes as one of the best in the business.But for now, Solicitor General Donald B. Verrilli Jr., who will represent theUnited States when the Supreme Court considers the constitutionality of thenation's health-care overhaul, is focusing on the "it's an honor" part."As you get closer to the argument, the tension rises," Verrilli said in arecent interview in his corner office at the Justice Department. "But it's awonderful experience. I feel incredibly privileged to be here right now doingthis. It's amazing."The solicitor general is the government's top appellate lawyer and the UnitedStates'  representative at the Supreme Court; the 54-year-old Verrilli'spredecessor is the court's newest justice, Elena Kagan.Verrilli is at the forefront of the Obama administration's efforts to defend thePatient Protection and Affordable Care Act and will argue all three days whenthe court begins its extraordinary examination of the law next Monday.Arguing before the justices is nothing new for him. He has had 17 cases beforethe high court, five of them since he was confirmed as solicitor general inJune, and is a part of the small world of lawyers immersed in the court.After his undergraduate years at Yale and Columbia Law School, he served as aclerk to Justice William J. Brennan Jr. He was part of a team that helpedprepare Justice Stephen G. Breyer for his confirmation hearings."I wouldn't call myself a Supreme Court specialist," Verrilli said. "Unlike someof the folks in the private sector who do Supreme Court work, my practice when Iwas in the private sector was always a mix of trial and appellate work."Verrilli handled First Amendment and telecommunications cases as a partner atJenner and Block, and he is noted in part for his role in representing motionpicture studios and music recording companies against makers of file-sharingsoftware that the companies said induced stealing.Verrilli represented 28 of the largest entertainment companies inMetro-Goldwyn-Mayer Studios Inc. v. Grokster Ltd., which he won 9 to 0. Untoldamounts of money were at stake in the case, and Verrilli learned how to pleasemany different bosses.Moot courts - in which Verrilli practiced the arguments he would make to thejustices - were held in auditoriums to accommodate all of the companies'lawyers, he said.It was another Supreme Court case that Verrilli said had a more lasting effecton him.Verrilli and his firm for more than 10 years represented Maryland death-rowinmate Kevin Wiggins, who drowned 77-year-old Florence Lacs in her bathtub.Verrilli handled Wiggins's appeal of his death sentence and uncovered evidencenever presented to the jury of Wiggins's horrific childhood, in which hesuffered repeated physical and sexual abuse from his mother and the fosterfamilies with whom he later was sent to live.The Supreme Court's 7 to 2 decision in Wiggins v. Smith set aside Wiggins'sdeath sentence on the grounds that his right to effective counsel had beenviolated. The decision established new rules on what a lawyer must do toinvestigative a client's background and present mitigating evidence."It was - I'm searching for words here because it's hard to find them - thatcase meant a very great deal to me," Verrilli said. "At some level, it helped meunderstand what it means actually to be a lawyer."I was this guy's champion in the world, and I was that for 10 years. And if itwasn't me, it wasn't going to be anybody else."Later, Verrilli would argue before the court that the three-drug protocol usedin most lethal injection executions throughout the country could violate theConstitution's protections against cruel and unusual punishment. The justicesdisagreed in Baze v. Rees7 to 2.Verrilli's advocacy raised questions from Republicans on the Senate JudiciaryCommittee about how he would defend capital punishment if he were called on todo so on behalf of the federal government."Whatever personal views I might have respecting any legal issue will play norole in the discharge of my obligations," Verrilli replied.Verrilli said he made the move to government service because he had alwayswanted to work at the Justice Department and because of President Obama."I essentially took the view that, once the president was elected in November2008, I would be happy to do anything at the Department of Justice, includingsweeping floors,"  Verrilli said.That admiration for Obama also prompted some critical questions at Verrilli'sconfirmation, especially after he testified that "at the end of the day, thesolicitor general works for the attorney general, who works for the president,"and that he would defend a statute passed by Congress "unless instructed by mysuperior not to do so."In written answers to follow-up questions, Verrilli said he had not been clearenough on the "vital importance of the independent judgment a solicitor generalmust exercise."If he were convinced that an order from the attorney general or president "wasbased on partisan political considerations or other illegitimate reasons, or onan indefensible view of the law, I would resign rather than carry out theorder."Verrilli wins praise from others who have held the job."I'm a big fan of Don Verrilli," said Theodore J. Olson, who was PresidentGeorge W. Bush's first solicitor general. "He's a superb lawyer and perfectgentleman."So gentlemanly, in fact, that at a recent appearance before a group of corporatelawyers at Georgetown Law Center, Verrilli was praising another former solicitorgeneral, Paul D. Clement, who will argue for the 26 states trying to overturnthe health-care act.Verrilli called Clement, who was seated with him on stage, "an extraordinary,extraordinary lawyer." He said Clement had written a "phenomenal brief" in thehealth-care case. "I commend it to you as an example of how to write aneffective brief," Verrilli told the lawyers.Verrilli would not discuss the merits of the health-care issue either at theevent or in the interview, but he said his low-key manner and niceties shouldnot be misinterpreted."I'm intensely competitive. Oh, yeah, I'm intensely competitive," he said."I'm up there to win."barnesr@washpost.comFor previous High Court columns, go to washingtonpost.com/fedpage.