All summer, federal-dom has been abuzz over a steamy U.S. Postal ServiceInspector General's report accusing the agency's former public affairs chief ofheavy drinking, expense account chicanery and sexual harassment. But who knewthat the subject of the report, Azeezaly S. Jaffer, has spent the season onvacation, courtesy of the Postal Service?Jaffer's taxpayers' holiday bears witness, a Postal Service spokesman said, "tohow hardworking he is."The June IG report accuses Jaffer, who managed a staff of 160 and a $20 millionbudget, of, among other things: drinking at a work function until he passed out;running up $8,000 in extra hotel room charges so he could qualify for a suitewith a bathtub for two; and following a female colleague into her hotel room,propositioning her, then passing out.The Postmaster General's office requested the report in mid-2005, after employeecomplaints about Jaffer's behavior, spokesman Gerry McKiernan said. Eleven daysafter the IG released its report June 19, Jaffer, who denies the allegations,left the agency "to pursue other career opportunities."His departure was announced by Postmaster General John E. Potter, who wrote in amemo to officers that Jaffer "served us well during some of the most difficultpublic relations challenges faced by any organization," including the 2001anthrax attacks. His efforts, Potter wrote, "were critical to maintaining publicand employee confidence in the Postal Service and the mail."And then, despite the allegations, Jaffer went on two months' paid vacation,which ended Sept. 1. Beyond that, Jaffer's attorney, Matthew Hsu, said, hisclient is in line for another two months' vacation pay; at his annual salary of$160,000, the four months of vacation pay amounts to more than $50,000.Jaffer has paid the Postal Service $3,600, mostly for bills run up by his familylast year.Late last week, the Postal Service issued new post-Jaffer expense guidelines.Dinners, they say, should not exceed $50 per person, more frugal than, forexample, the $1,066.08 that the IG says Jaffer charged the Postal Service fordinner for three, including 16 drinks.McKiernan wondered last week why anyone remains interested in this summer'sscandal. But Congress aims to keep Jaffer's endless summer warm at least throughautumn.On Friday, Rep. Thomas M. Davis III (R-Va.) who chairs the House Committee onGovernment Reform, and the committee's ranking minority member, Henry A. Waxman(D-Calif.), sent a letter to Potter requesting a pile of records linked toJaffer's case. "The Inspector General's report of clearly unacceptable conductby a senior postal official is troubling to all of us," the letter reads. ThePostal Service has until Sept. 28 to respond.Jaffer spent some of his summer vacation telling his side to Sidley Austin,which recently released a 42-page "white paper" denying the charges against him.A few excerpts follow:The IG says: "Jaffer drinks to excess at official Postal Service functions andhas done so to the point of unconsciousness on at least two occasions. . . .[Name redacted] . . . recalled going to dinner with Jaffer and others at arestaurant in New York City. . . . Halfway through dinner, Jaffer fell forward,almost hitting his head on his plate, apparently losing consciousness. [Nameredacted] escorted Jaffer back to his hotel room."Sidley Austin says: "The OIG alleges that Mr. Jaffer . . . was refused boardingon flights due to intoxication and that he left his shoes in a hotel lounge dueto intoxication. . . . None of these allegations are true. Mr. Jaffer freelyacknowledges that he has consumed alcohol at many different Postal Serviceevents and business dinners. However, he has never consumed alcohol to the pointof incapacitation or incoherence. . . . Postal Service employees who have workedwith Mr. Jaffer . . . have never seen Mr. Jaffer lose consciousness or becarried to his room because he was intoxicated."The IG says: "[Name redacted] stated that one evening in 2000 while attendingthe National Postal Forum held in Nashville, Tennessee, Jaffer offered to escorther to her hotel room. She did not realize how intoxicated he was when sheaccepted his offer. The manager stated that he followed her into her room, triedto touch her, and propositioned her. She could not convince him to leave herroom, and Jaffer finally fell asleep on the floor. . . . The next morning Jafferwoke up and immediately left her room. . . . She stated that when Jaffer seesher in the building, he compliments her appearance, tells her he loves her . .."Sidley Austin says: "Mr. Jaffer treats female employees of the Postal Servicewith respect and dignity. . . . Specifically, in 2000 or 2001 at a Postal Forumin Memphis, Tennessee, Mr. Jaffer and [name redacted] shared a brief drink atthe hotel bar. . . . He offered to walk her back to her room. . . .  When theygot to her room, he continued to talk with [name redacted] in her room, and thenhe eventually fell asleep on the couch. . . .  He did not make any explicitlysexual or vulgar remarks to her, nor did he attempt to touch her or make sexualadvances toward her."The IG says: "When asked about the high per-person costs of the meals he hostedat Peking Gourmet Inn, Jaffer stated that they have to be looked at in context.. . . Jaffer stated that, in regard to wine, he considers anything up to $100 abottle to be "halfway decent and reasonable."Sidley Austin says: Mr. Jaffer's alcohol purchases were appropriate. . . . Hisrequests for reimbursement were never denied. The Postal Service never cautionedor counseled Mr. Jaffer regarding his alcohol purchases. . . .  Mr. Jaffer hasacted as someone in his position should  --  he has entertained individuals whohave benefited or may be in a position to benefit the Postal Service."Copies of Jaffer's written responses to the Inspector General's report can befound at www.washingtonpost.com/fedpage.