LONDON - The public address announcer blared, "The gold medalist and Olympicchampion . . ." and that's about the point that 17-year oldClaressa Shieldslostit. She started laughing uncontrollably before the announcer could even say hername. And once the medal was around her neck, she immediately clutched it,waving it from side to side and lifting it above her head. The excitement hadtaken over every nerve and every muscle."I thought I was gonna have a seizure," Shields said later.She laughed throughout the medal ceremony, after her 19-12 victory over RussianNadezda Torlopova made Shields, a middleweight, the only American boxer at theseOlympics - and the first U.S. woman - to win boxing gold. The whole time shekept grabbing at the shiny disc, making sure it was real and that it was reallyhers. Truth is, that medal might be the most believable part of Shields'sjourney.Her new prize, she said, is something she'll wear every single day because itrepresents so much."I earned this," she said. "This is my medal. I worked too hard. I worked reallyhard for this medal. I can't even explain all the pain that I had went through,all the people I had to do deal with. And just life, period."Just a teenager - 165 pounds packed with personality, strength and charm -Shields has a lot of life experience behind her. Too much of it, really. She'sfrom Flint, Mich., a hard-luck town where every victory is a big one. She knowsher parents, but splits her time living with an aunt and her boxing coach.Shields recently told Essence magazine that she was molested and raped by afamily acquaintance when she was younger.Her father served time in prison for breaking and entering, and she didn't knowhim until she was 9. When he got out, Bo Shields, a former fighter, introducedhis daughter to the boxing game.At age 11, she wandered into a gym and met Jason Crutchfield, a journeymanfighter who made ends meet working construction. Shields picked up the basicsquickly, and by time she was 13 - and women's boxing was an exhibition sport inBeijing - Crutchfield began talking to her about winning an Olympic medal.While Shields had a clear goal that she was running toward, she could never losesight of what she was running from. In Flint, hope is a precious commodity."When I used to go running, I used to see all these crackheads, these drugaddicts. I just didn't want to be like them," Shields said. "I didn't want to belike them at all. I wanted to have a good life."Working daily with Crutchfield, Shields became the youngest boxer to make theU.S. team. Her family couldn't afford to come to London, but her coach did. Hehelped guide her through the tough bracket.Shields cruised the quarterfinal and semifinal rounds and went to bed Wednesdaynight knowing she'd face the talented Russian in the gold medal match.She couldn't sleep and kept asking herself, "Am I really fighting for gold?" Shewas out of bed at 5 a.m. Later in the morning, Crutchfield talked to his starpupil via Skype, bringing in Lissus Walker, Crutchfield's old boxing coach, on athree-way call. It was barely 6 a.m. back in Flint, but Walker helped dissectthe previous day's semifinal bout and talked about adjustments that Shieldsneeded to make.Before they said goodbye, Walker asked the teenage fighter, "Can you do it?""Yes, Mr. Walker," Shields said. "I can do it."At the arena Thursday, she didn't even notice one of the loudest, most raucouscrowds at these Olympics, which cheered Ireland's Katie Taylor to victory in thebout that directly preceded Shields's. Shields instead listened to music andwaited for the bell.Each fighter was able to sneak through some clean shots in the opening round,and judges scored the first two minutes even, 3-3. Shields was more active inthe second, utilizing her jab. As Torlopova appeared to slow in the third,Shields remained the aggressor and added to her lead. Shields closed out thevictory with a decisive final round and knew when the referee raised her hand inthe air that everything had changed.After disappointing performances by the U.S. men's boxers, Shields performancewas one of the few bright spots at these Olympics, the first in which women'sboxing was considered a medal sport. "I don't think there's gonna be anybody whowatched the Olympics saying that women can't box," Shields said, "because theyseen me get down."She tried to guess how life might be different now: History will remember her,she figures, and people will see her as an inspiration. "I might have 10,000followers when I get back on Twitter," Shields said.She's already noticed people poking their heads up from Flint's cracks. Shieldssays she'll be cautious."I'm not the type to bite my tongue for nobody. I'll tell them, 'Where was youat when I needed my hair done? Where was you at when I needed some money? Wherewas you at when I needed some clothes?' " Shields said. "You got to recognizereal. I recognize real."Shields will begin her senior year of high school soon and says she doesn't knowwhether she'll try to defend her Olympic title in 2016. There has never beforebeen a U.S. female gold-winning boxer, and she doesn't know what opportunitiesmight come along."I want it to be where my sister, my little brother, my mom and them, they wouldnever have to go without a meal again," she said. "I went without a lot of mealsgrowing up."She stood on the podium Thursday night and couldn't let go of that medal. It's asymbol of what she has overcome, but also a promise, she hopes, of what's yet tocome."There's a lot of stuff that's going to be able to help my family out," Shieldssaid. "I got a gold medal that I can wear every day, by my choice. And it'smine."maeser@washpost.comMore 2012 OlympicsPhotos: Scenes from Day 13Jenkins: U.S. women's soccer sought glory and found itWise: Bolt's Olympic golds make him the greatest everBolt completes consecutive sweeps of sprint racesLloyd's two goals lead U.S. women to soccer goldSoccer Insider: Recap soccer action, plus videosPhotos: More scenes from U.S. women's soccerEaton wins gold, Hardee silver, in decathlonShields wins only U.S. gold in boxing, 1st for a womanAlexandria's Jennings wins bronze in taekwondohttp://www.washingtonpost.com/sports/womens-boxing/2012/08/08/42c591e8-e18b-11e1-98e7-89d659f9c106_gallery.html" title="www.washingtonpost.comRhythmic gymnastics: Bethesda's Zetlin faltersOlympic medal countInstagram: Post staffers keep their cameras outLondon Eyes: Share sights and soundFollow the Olympics live on our London Games blog