They look like such upstanding young gentlemen in their blue blazers andpressed khakis. They say "Yes, sir" and "No, sir," and they attend the finest ofschools. And they are such loyal friends. Oh, their stories matched up soprettily as they trooped up onto the witness stand to defend their boy, CollinFinnerty.The name is familiar, of course, or else I wouldn't be in D.C. Superior Courtfor a misdemeanor assault case, a garden-variety crime that gets churned outhere like beer cans rolling through a Budweiser plant.Finnerty, the tall, lean, clean-cut, baby-faced fellow over at the defendant'stable, is one of those Duke University lacrosse players we've read so much aboutof late. He's been indicted in North Carolina on charges that he raped astripper during an off-campus party in March. As flimsy as that case appears tobe, it was enough to alter the course of Finnerty's charge stemming from asidewalk fracas in Georgetown.If you hit a stranger on the streets of Georgetown, the court system generallyrequests that you not do this again and sends you on your way. That's whathappened to two buddies of Finnerty's who were also caught after the late-nightviolence on Wisconsin Avenue NW last November.Finnerty, too, would have gotten a comfy spot in what's known as the "diversion"program had it not been for his other troubles. But with the rape charge hangingover the 19-year-old from New York, the D.C. prosecutors and judge decided atrial was in order. Cue the upstanding gentlemen.Surrounded by family, friends, priests and a battalion of lawyers scratchingaway in the gallery on their yellow legal pads, Finnerty seems like the last guyin the world who would hurl vile insults and threats at two young men he'd neverbefore seen. Michael Hannan, the father of Finnerty's girlfriend, tells thecourt that he watched Collin back home on Long Island at neighborhood partiesand cotillion dances and concluded that this young man was "a very warm andgentle individual," "extremely peaceful and extremely nonviolent." Otherwise, ofcourse, Hannan would never have permitted his daughter to go out with the kid.But on cross-examination, prosecutor George Varghese finds out that Hannan hasnever seen Finnerty under the influence of alcohol and therefore has no clue howthe boy behaves when he's plastered.Now we're getting to the nub of the case. Because while no one in the courtroommakes much of an issue of it, this case is swimming in beer. The boys, all ofthem underage, testify that they were drinking back at the Georgetown Universitydorms, drinking in Georgetown bars  --  they were even heading back to campus todrink some more after they'd finished attacking two strangers.If the people crowding into Judge John Bayly's courtroom are looking for insightinto the North Carolina case, here it comes: How do you make sense of thedisconnect between the proud, even arrogant claims of excellent character byFinnerty's friends and the disgusting descriptions of his behavior by the twomen he humiliated that night in Georgetown?How is it that these polite youngsters spent half an hour shoving and tauntingtotal strangers, making them announce to the world in the coarsest possibleterms, right there on a public sidewalk, that they perform gay sex acts? Whatcould gentlemen say that would cause Scott Herndon, one of the victims, to runinto a restaurant seeking help because he thought he was going to be killed?Answer: When in the company of elders and teachers, these young men do behaveadmirably. When the stage lights go off and the guys head out to drink and drinkand drink, anything goes. Hey, they're just kids! Or as the priest who testifiedfor Finnerty puts it, "One incident doesn't make a gentleman's character."You could sit through this two-day trial and be appalled that the kind of casethat ordinarily gets done in an hour takes up about a dozen times more resources--  two prosecutors and a supervisor!  --  and time simply because of thedefendant's notoriety, celebrity and money.Or you could take solace in Judge Bayly's wise observation that no matter howmany lawyers and witnesses the defense throws into the mix, a case like thisstill comes down to one side's word against the other's.From there, the judge did the right thing: He found the victims more credibleand convicted Finnerty on Tuesday. Because in fact, when you pick on a stranger,when you find fun in tormenting the innocent, when you believe it is in any wayacceptable to attack another human being, then that incident indeed does open awindow onto a larger truth.Even if no rape occurred in the Duke case, even if that ugly incident was nomore than a raucous party at which a bunch of drunken kids verbally abused ahired performer, it sounds like it was entirely within character for these kidsand the friend they tried to talk out of trouble in D.C. Superior Court. Sorry,Father, but one incident often does make a gentleman's character.Join me at noon today for "Potomac Confidential" at www.washingtonpost.com/liveonline.