Anthony "Carlos Danger" Weiner has so far resisted calls from his former NewYork congressional colleagues to drop out of the race and get some "serious"help for his sexting habits.Polls had shown the Democrat in the lead in the crowded field for thefirst-round vote on Sept. 10 but losing in an Oct. 1 runoff.The late-night comics, led by Jay Leno, desperately pleaded for him to hang inthere. "I'm pleading with the voters of New York," Leno said, "please elect thisman, please."(Probably not going to happen, but it would be nice if he hung in there untilSeptember, to help get us through traditionally slow August.)Meanwhile, on the West Coast, a congressman-turned-mayor, San Diego's Bob Filner(D), is also resisting calls for him to step down, amid allegations that hesexually harassed several women.Things got worse this week when his former communications director filed aharassment suit.The City Council president suggested that employees be given "alternativeworkspace" away from Filner's office "to ensure a safe work environment andmaintain productivity."Filner also apologized and promised to change his ways.We had assumed Filner was surely a goner any day now. But then, just as a thirdwoman came forward Wednesday with more allegations against him, we got a "You'reInvited! Save the Date" e-mail from him asking us to join him Sept. 28 at the"Grand Opening Ceremony" of the new San Diego Central Library.We tentatively penciled in the event.A George boom?The royal couple picked the name George Alexander Louis for their new baby. It'sdistinguished, for sure, and quite British (see the various King Georges andGeorge Harrison).Some political trivia: Although we've had a good run of presidents named George(George Washington, and then those two George Bushes), it's not the most popularpresidential name. That would be James (six of 'em), followed by John andWilliam at four each.But George isn't so common among the current political set.Congress has only two Georges, both in the House: Reps. George Miller(D-Calif.)andGeorge Holding(R-N.C.). Not a one in the Senate.There are no Georges to be found in the Cabinet, either.Though if, as expected, the royal baby name sets off a global trend, we canexpect a Congress full of Georges starting in about . . . 2070 (since theaverage age of the House is 57).The Vote for Me ActBill titles, with their often loaded and coded language, have become marketingtools for lawmakers looking to sell their policies to their colleagues andconstituents.From clever acronyms to carefully chosen buzzwords, the names of pieces oflegislation are rarely afterthoughts.The Loop sorted through some of the immigration and other bills floating aroundCongress, and helpfully translated them.S. 1348 (of the 110th Congress): The Comprehensive Immigration Reform Act of2007.Translation: Here's our latest attempt at a really, really big bill that fixesimmigration. (Snooze - that was so 2007.)S. 1: The Immigration Reform that Works for America's Future Act. (This is theSenate Democrats' signature bill.)Translation: "Works" - that's a double entendre - means it creates jobs. And"America's Future" has a grand sort of scope to it, so you know it's good.S. 744: The Border Security, Economic Opportunity, and Immigration ModernizationAct.Translation: There's something in here for everyone! Sealing up the borders?Yup. Creating jobs? Done. Also, it's not that scary, liberal "reform," it's just"modernization" (i.e., the current system is outdated).H.R. 2131: The Supplying Knowledge Based Immigrants and Lifting Levels of STEMVisas Act.Translation: We can let the smart ones in.H.R. 2278: The Strengthen and Fortify Enforcement Act.Translation: Who doesn't like their enforcement nice and beefy?And a few non-immigration bills with titles that caught our eye:H.R. 23: The Sanctity of Human Life Act.Translation: Vote against this one, and you might as well vote for theAnti-American Pie Act.H.R. 2643: The Stay in Place, Cut the Waste Act of 2013.Translation: Keeping federal workers right where they are instead ofgallivanting off to far flung conferences = saving money.S. 1192 and H.R. 2444: The Commonsense Contractor Compensation Act of 2013.Translation: What, you don't like a little common sense with your reforms?Those darn scribesAs the U.S. and Vietnamese media were leaving the Oval Office on Thursday aftera brief photo op, one of the television cameras still rolling caught PresidentObama quipping to Vietnam's president, Truong Tan Sang, about the slow pace ofthe media pool in exiting the room: "Reporters are the same everywhere."Of course, that's arguably an accurate observation. But probably not somethingyou want to tell the head of a government that the Committee to ProtectJournalists says is engaged in "a campaign of harassment and intimidation thathas specifically targeted the country's few independent online journalists andbloggers."With Emily Heilkamena@washpost.comThe blog: washingtonpost.com/intheloop. Twitter: @InTheLoopWP.