Rep. Robert W. Ney, an Ohio Republican under suspicion for his dealings withdisgraced lobbyist Jack Abramoff, scored an easy primary victory Tuesday nightamid a fight to avoid indictment and keep his job on Capitol Hill.Sen. Mike DeWine (R) and Rep. Sherrod Brown (D) skated to victories in theirSenate primaries, officially setting up a race that could be among the mostcompetitive and expensive of the year.Secretary of State J. Kenneth Blackwell, a social conservative, won theRepublican primary for governor. He will face Rep. Ted Strickland (D), aseven-term congressman, in November as the Democrats seek to win the office forthe first time since 1986.In North Carolina, Durham County District Attorney Mike Nifong won a three-wayDemocratic primary to keep the job that propelled him to national prominenceafter last month's rape allegations against Duke University lacrosse players. Heobtained indictments against two players in a prosecution that his sharpestcritics say was partly motivated by his political ambitions.In other Ohio congressional races, Rep. Jean Schmidt  --   a freshman best knownfor calling Rep. John P. Murtha (D-Pa.), a decorated Marine veteran, a cowardduring a floor debate on Iraq  --  was leading former congressman Bob McEwen.The GOP winner is expected to take the seat against weak opposition in November.State Sen. Charlie Wilson (D) looked likely to win the nomination forStrickland's seat as a write-in candidate. He spent hundreds of thousands ofdollars on the primary against two little-known candidates after failing toqualify for the ballot because of a signature mix-up. Former staterepresentative Betty Sutton (D) won a tough primary for Brown's seat.Democratic victories in Ohio are considered essential if the party is to reachits goal of winning control of the Senate and House. The Senate race isconsidered a toss-up, and several House races are competitive, a rarity in anage when incumbents almost always triumph.The state is also seen as an important test of the national Democratic strategyto challenge the competence and ethics of the GOP leadership.Republicans have occupied the governor's office since 1990 and now control thestate's political levers. But a series of scandals have combined with astuttering economy to give the Democrats hope. The state's industrial base isshrinking, with announcements of new automotive industry cuts contributing tovoters' perception that the state and the nation are on the wrong track.Analysts expect that the heaviest drag on Republican ambitions will come fromGov. Bob Taft (R), whose approval rating fell below 20 percent after he pleadedno contest to accepting secret gifts. Many came from Tom Noe, a local RepublicanParty leader accused of defrauding the state workers'-compensation fund.Noe has also been charged by a Toledo grand jury with funneling $45,400 incampaign contributions to President Bush's reelection campaign. SeveralRepublican candidates, including Blackwell and DeWine, hurried to donate themoney to charity after the scandal broke.Ney is becoming as much a target as Taft. He accepted gifts, including meals,sports tickets and a golf trip to Scotland, from Abramoff and his lobbying team.Prosecutors investigating criminal allegations against Ney said he collected "astream of things of value" in exchange for official actions.Despite his legal troubles, Ney continued to raise a significant amount of moneyfor his race against Republican James Harris, a financial analyst.If Ney stays in the race, as he has vowed he will, his November opponent will beZachary T. Space, a Dover lawyer who outdistanced Chillicothe Mayor Joe Sulzerand two other opponents in the Democratic primary.Blackwell, who led the fight for an Ohio marriage initiative that helped Bushedge out Sen. John F. Kerry (D-Mass.) in 2004, is the favorite of the state'sconservatives. Two Columbus area churches are the subject of a complaint to theInternal Revenue Service by 56 clergy members who say the churches and theiraffiliates have improperly boosted Blackwell's candidacy.Church representatives deny wrongdoing, and the IRS has declined to say whetherany inquiry is underway. Blackwell, who blasted as "bullies" the 31 religiousfigures who signed an earlier complaint, is the second African American to win agubernatorial nomination this year. The other is Pennsylvania Republican LynnSwann, a former football star.Voters in Indiana handed primary victories to all nine House incumbents and toSen. Richard G. Lugar (R), who was unopposed.Washingtonpost.com staff writer Chris Cillizza contributed to this report.