A Falls Church spa owner who was sexually assaulted in her business in Januaryand then charged by city police with operating an unlicensed massage parlor hadall charges against her dismissed Wednesday.The two misdemeanor counts against Lien Tran cost her about $9,000 in legal feesand also forced her to close half of the space she was renting - even as shepaid her full rent.A http://www.washingtonpost.com/blogs/the-state-of-nova/post/tensions-in-falls-church-rise-as-vietnamese-community-protests-handling-of-sexual-assault/2012/04/18/gIQAKVhSQT_blog.htmlmanattacked Tran, 42, shortly before she opened her Venus and Mars Spa on Jan. 28.Falls Church police took a report and also took the high-definition colorsurveillance photos of the attacker from the cameras in her two-story salon offBroad Street. No one has been charged in that case, and Tran said police havenot spoken to her about it in months.The Washington Post generally does not name the victims of sexual assault, butTran consented to the publication of her identity.Two days after the attack, Detective Sonya Richardson issued Tran twomisdemeanor charges for operating an unlicensed massage parlor. Tran told policethat she didn't perform massages, but she said that police ordered her to closethe second floor of her salon, which she did, and that the charges cost herbusiness and employees.When Tran went to court in April to defend herself, bringing in witnesses and acourt reporter, part-time prosecutor Dan Conway was not ready to try the caseand obtained a two-month continuance.Falls Church officials then decided to enlist the Arlington County prosecutor'soffice to handle all its misdemeanor cases in General District Court. ArlingtonAssistant Commonwealth's Attorney Fran O'Brien took over the case, and asked forand received the dismissal of both charges Wednesday."It was an issue of compliance" with Falls Church ordinances requiring those whoperform massages to have a permit, O'Brien said. "There were months leading upto this where there were compliance issues. The signs were out saying 'full bodymassage'; the brochures in the lobby saying 'massages, full body.' "Asked whether police investigated whether massages were actually performed,O'Brien said: "When you're advertising that you do it, it's not surprising thatpeople draw the conclusion that it's being done."Tran said no Falls Church officials had ever spoken to her about massages, heradvertising or her permits before she was charged. She said she did notadvertise full-body massages.Tran said Falls Church police came back to her spa in June in an attempted stingoperation.She saidthat an undercover male officer tried to get a massage but that hewasn't given one and was instead given a reflexology massage of the hands andfeet.Falls Church police officials did not return calls about the dismissal of thecharges or the unsolved sexual assault."I feel bad," Tran said Wednesday after the brief hearing. "Because I've beenthrough eight months where I was innocent. I don't know how many people would beable to pay eight months' rent. I feel bad for others."She said the support of Northern Virginia's large Vietnamese communityhelped herget through the ordeal. "My community gave me spirit," she said. "That's why wedo the hard work to fight for fair justice."Binh Nguyen, president of the Vietnamese American Chamber of Commerce, watchedthe case conclude and said he was disgusted."This destroyed her life," he said."This is unbelievable, it's an outrage. If the police had evidence, that's onething. But they dragged this on for months. And they still haven't done anythingon her being sexually assaulted. To me, it's just wrong."To avoid future problems, Tran said she studied for and passed the test tobecome a licensed massage therapist. She now must apply for a license.But she said that she cannot afford to reopen the second floor of her business,even though she is locked into a 10-year lease.jackmant@washpost.com