STATE COLLEGE, Pa. - Of the half-dozen job interviews John Tecce has been onthis winter, the subject has come up every time, in some cases dominating theentire interview: How does Tecce, a senior marketing major at Penn State,viewthe child sex-abuse scandal that shook the university in November? Does hefeel the university acted appropriately in firing football coach Joe Paternointhe scandal's wake? Where was Tecce on the night several thousand studentsrioted just off campus?"You don't know what's going through [the interviewer's] head, whether they see'Penn State' on your rsum and assume the worst," said Tecce, 22, fromDowningtown, Pa. "Maybe you don't know for sure that's the reason they're goingto deny you a job, but it" might be.This is a week for reflection at Penn State, as the campus, township of StateCollege and larger university community mourn the death of Paterno, the iconic85-year-old patriarch of the school's once-storied football program, from lungcancer on Sunday. Wednesday's funeralhttp://www.washingtonpost.com/national/mourners-line-up-for-2nd-day-of-joe-paternos-public-viewing-funeral-set-for-afternoon/2012/01/25/gIQAJmJvPQ_story.html will be followed by a publicmemorial Thursday at the Bryce Jordan Center. It is a week for contemplatinguniversal, big-picture themes: life, death, legacy, redemption, community.But for at least one group of Penn Staters - the thousands of seniors set tograduate in May - this is also a time for a very personal, self-centeredquestion: What does the scandal mean for my own future?As they meet with corporate recruiters and interview with prospective employers,Penn State seniors in many cases are discovering the scandal - in which a formerassistant football coach, Jerry Sandusky, is charged with sexually abusing 10boys over a 15-year-period - is very much on the minds of the ones asking thequestions.Sally Chia, 22, a public relations major from Taiwan, said she was interviewingwith General Electric shortly after the scandal broke in November when she wassurprised by a sudden turn in the line of questioning."They asked how I felt about it, [and] what I would have done if I [hadwitnessed an assault]. I was caught off-guard," Chia said. "When I didn't getthe job offer at first, I kept thinking, 'Maybe I could have answered thatquestion better.' I don't think it's an appropriate question to ask just becausesomeone happens to be from Penn State. We're not to blame for something a formercoach did."It was a line of questioning the university anticipated in the days followingthe scandal, as two high-ranking Penn State officials were charged in an allegedcover-up and two other officials - including Paterno - were fired for failing toact decisively enough. On the night of Paterno's dismissal, thousands ofstudents rioted.In those first few days, rumors were spreading rapidly that corporate recruiterswere shunning Penn State students, or even rescinding job offers.In a Nov. 11 letter to students and prospective employers, Jeff Garis, PennState's senior director of career services, shot down those rumors and offeredsuggestions to students on how to deal with pointed questions during jobinterviews. "Students may acknowledge that they are primarily concerned for thevictims and also concerned for Penn State in these troubling times," Gariswrote. "However, students should keep the focus on . . . how they will excel inthe opportunity."By many measures, Penn State says it is doing just fine from a businessstandpoint in the wake of the scandal. In an address to the faculty senate thisweek, new president Rodney Erickson cited, among other things, a 3 percentincrease over 2010 in undergraduate-admissions applications and a 10 percentincrease in the sum of contributions to the school's annual fund as proof of theuniversity's overall health.Meanwhile, in an interview Wednesday at his office on the campus's eastern edge,Garis also said his initial fears about a backlash from corporate recruitershave proved to be unfounded, citing a 15 percent increase from 2010 in thenumber of companies attending Penn State's Spring Career Day - an increase Garisattributes largely to the improving economy."This tells me employers are every bit as interested, or more, in recruitingPenn State students as before," he said.Julie Rank, who recruits on college campuses for Brooksource, anIndianapolis-based IT staffing firm, said she still recruits Penn State studentsas aggressively as before, and said the scandal is "not a topic that needs to bediscussed in a professional setting.""That puts the students in a very awkward situation," she said. "No intervieweesfrom other schools are having to answer those same questions."But while Garis said he has received little indication that the Sandusky scandalhas been a hot topic during students' job interviews, the students themselvestell a different story.Michael Higgins, 21, a senior industrial engineering major from Norristown, Pa.,said of his four job interviews so far, three have included scandal questions.In one case, an interviewer noted an item on Higgins's resume - he is vicepresident of "Paternoville," an organization that represents the body ofstudents that camps out for tickets during home football weeks - and joked, "Ican't believe you still have that on your rsum.""I actually feel that [questions about the scandal are] a good starting point inan interview," Higgins said. "It breaks the ice, and it kind of lets them knowwhat kind of person I am."sheinind@washpost.com