Is this it?Is the product you are accustomed to holding in your hands a relic, soon to gothe way of silent movies and manual typewriters?I have been one of the industry's most fervent optimists, convinced thatsomehow, some way, newspapers would find a path to survival. But the last fewweeks have shaken my belief, suggesting that what I find indispensable -- adaily compendium delivered to your doorstep -- may be left behind by history andpublic indifference.The bleak future becomes clear when one paper after another whacks a third ormore of its staff -- the Baltimore Sun is just the latest -- and the New YorkTimes Co. threatens to shut down the Boston Globe before settling for painfulcutbacks. This is not some temporary downturn; these jobs are gone forever.Warren Buffett, who reads five newspapers a day, now sees the possibility of"just unending losses" and says he wouldn't buy one at any price. The legendaryinvestor is not just very wealthy but owns the Buffalo News and a chunk of TheWashington Post Co.The people who run such companies bear a considerable share of the blame. In1993, just before the Internet became a consumer force, I argued in a book thatnewspapers had become too cautious, too incremental and too dull, tailoredlargely for insiders. The rise of hugely profitable monopoly papers in mostcities made them increasingly bland, seemingly allergic to controversy.Then the Net changed America, but newspapers remained mired in two-dimensionalthinking. They created sites that were largely a static replica of their printeditions. There was little updating, little sense of the dynamism of the Web,and when I started writing a blog for washingtonpost.com in 2000, I had littlecompany in the mainstream media.The missed opportunities were endless. For the first time in half a century,newspapers could compete against television with real-time reporting, butdidn't. The Globe's previous owners turned down a 1995 offer from the founder ofMonster.com to put Globe classifieds online, before his site became a smash hit.Why did no establishment media company create a Craigslist, a Huffington Post, aGoogle News, a Twitter, or other sites that have altered the boundaries of newsand information?Now that they are belatedly beefing up their Web sites, executives are usingcorporate-speak like "platform-agnostic" to explain why they are firing hordesof journalists suddenly deemed redundant. Perhaps newspapers had grown too fatand were always destined to slim down in the Web era, but the mass firings haveabout them an air of desperation. How can papers with far smaller staffs andreduced ambitions stem circulation declines?Some high-level people are trying to square the circle. Post Co. chief executiveDonald Graham and Google chief executive Eric Schmidt and their lieutenants havebeen holding talks about a possible collaboration. This could range fromcreating new Web pages to technological tools for journalists or readers.Hanging over the talks is the reality that the search giant, while funnelingvital traffic to news sites, vacuums up their content without paying a dime.Post executive Philip Bennett confirmed the discussions, saying: "We're talkingto each other about improved ways of creating and presenting news online." Hecalls it "an informal collaboration" that "has produced some interesting ideasalready. I'd say that on the journalism side of the conversation we've learned alot."Oddly enough, newspapers are reaching more people than ever before. In 1999, ThePost had a circulation of 786,000, essentially limited to Washington and itssuburbs. Now the print circulation is 665,000 and The Post's Web site is drawing9.4 million unique monthly visitors from around the world.A survey by the University of Southern California's Annenberg center found thatNet users are spending 53 minutes per week reading online newspapers, up from 41minutes in 2007. The problem, as you've undoubtedly heard, is that the printadvertising that has supported sizable newsrooms is plunging, while online adsbring in just a fraction of the revenue. Combine that with an Internet culturebuilt on free content, and newspapers suddenly find themselves on a starvationdiet.Numerous schemes are being floated, from turning newspapers into nonprofits toseeking foundation grants. Steven Brill, the founder of Court TV and the defunctmagazine Brill's Content, has joined with two other former media executives toform Journalism Online. He is talking to publishers about a site that wouldallow consumers to easily buy subscriptions, day passes or single articles fromnumerous media organizations, each of which would decide how much to charge andhow much to put behind a pay wall. Rupert Murdoch, who is consideringdevelopment of an e-reader that might be better suited to newspapers thanAmazon's Kindle, also plans to begin charging "micro-payments" for individualarticles on the Wall Street Journal's subscription-only Web site, the FinancialTimes reports.But what about the old rolled-up, flip-through-the-pages, take-it-on-the-subwayproduct? In a world where the most obscure factoid can be searched in seconds,is most of America now immune to those  charms? With both Chicago newspapers inbankruptcy, that may be the case.Clay Shirky of New York University says on his blog that "people committed tosaving newspapers [are] demanding to know, 'If the old model is broken, whatwill work in its place?' To which the answer is: Nothing. Nothing will work.There is no general model for newspapers to replace the one the Internet justbroke."Maybe he's right. To recite the wonders of the daily paper -- the serendipitousmixture of serious and playful, plugged-in local columnists, a natural forum forin-depth articles -- is to risk sounding like a fuddy-duddy gentleman preachingthe virtues of ascots and walking sticks.But then there is the reporting. In 2003, the Globe won a Pulitzer Prize forexposing sexual abuse by Roman Catholic priests, a courageous journalistic featthat led to the resignation of Boston's archbishop and sparked inquiries aroundthe world. Can the slimmed-down Globe of the future do such intensive reporting?Could any other media outlet in Boston even attempt such a project?Newspaper folks may have an inflated view of their self-importance, but whatthey do has an impact beyond their readers and advertisers. Local TV isn'tlikely to expose a crooked mayor, as the Detroit Free Press did. Bloggers aren'tgoing to reveal secret CIA prisons."Society doesn't need newspapers. What we need is journalism," Shirky argues.That is way too glib. The online cacophony that would follow the demise ofnewspapers would be fast, furious and fun, insightful and opinionated. But let'sface it: Who would pay for a Baghdad bureau, or even a bureau in Albany orAnnapolis?I still have the buffet mentality, the idea that news, sports, entertainment andso on can make for a tasty package. Buffet folks like to get a fill, a briefing,a contextual sense of what's important. But so many others in the iTunes agewould rather cherry-pick, clicking on one story and rushing off, window shopperswho rarely come inside.Newspapers are probably dying as a mass medium, except perhaps for elite orspecialized audiences. Cutting down forests, printing the product and truckingit across the region no longer make economic sense. What is lost is the sense ofcommunity when everyone read the daily rag.Nothing lasts forever. I grew up in the era of tinny AM radios and 45 rpmrecords. I've worked for an afternoon paper that went under, the scrappyWashington Star. Maybe serious journalism will reinvent itself in new andunexpected forms. But if everything goes electronic, I'll always miss the feelof newsprint.