There are so many jaw-dropping accusations in the new indictmentof Anne ArundelCounty Executive John R. Leopold that it's hard to pick the most outrageous.Is it the $10,000 in police overtime? That was the county taxpayers' bill soLeopold's personal security detail could stand watch at a hospital to preventhis live-in girlfriend from meeting his other girlfriend, a county governmentsubordinate.Or how about the allegation that Leopold (R) required the police officers toempty his   urine bag when he was using a catheter because of back surgery?(Yuck.)The charges, brought by a state grand jury Friday, certainly represent the mostserious threat yet to Leopold's long political career. But he has surviveddisagreeable controversies before, and voters have repeatedly passed judgment inhis favor.This is the guy, remember, who easily won reelection in 2010 - a year afterpolice found him in the back seat of his Chevrolet Impala following a 911 callreporting two naked people having sex in a car. It was parked near the Nordstromstore in busy Westfield Annapolis Shopping Mall.The voters also weren't moved by a complaint against Leopold from female countyemployees alleging gender discrimination and sexual harassment. One former aidesaid  that Leopold asked her to track down attractive women he had met atcommunity and political gatherings and ask them to meet with him."The voters were well aware of those allegations but reelected me handily,"Leopold said in a telephone interview Tuesday. "Some said it's not true. Otherssaid it may be true, but he's done a great job and we're going to reelect himanyway."Leopold, 69, has remained popular partly by holding down property and incometaxes. He also has shown painstaking devotion to constituent services - fixingroads, reducing neighborhood noise and adding streetlights.Leopold also was lucky to face weak and divided opposition when he ran forreelection in 2010. The Democrats nominated a relatively inexperiencedcandidate, whose support was diluted by defectors to a Green Party candidate."The electorate of Anne Arundel County is tossed with indecision. They don'tmind the way he's governed. They wish he were more solid personally, and didn'thave the patina of impropriety," said Dan Nataf, director of the Center of theStudy of Local Issues at Anne Arundel Community College.Others say that if President Bill Clinton didn't have to resign after the MonicaLewinsky scandal, then Leopold can survive this."There's a whole new set of rules since Clinton. You can get away with stuffthat would have buried you before," said former county executive O. JamesLighthizer.Nevertheless, there are three major reasons why this scandal could mean muchmore trouble for Leopold than anything he's faced in the past.First, he hasn't been charged with crimes before. He faces one count offraudulent misappropriation, a misdemeanor that carries a jail term of one tofive years, and four counts of official misconduct.The Nordstrom parking lot incident didn't lead to charges. The female employeesfiled a civil complaint, not a criminal one. (It's still tied up in court.)Second, it seems clear from the indictment that the accusations come from one ormore of the police officers assigned to his security detail. The grand juryheard testimony from at least three officers a year ago. Police officers can bepretty sympathetic witnesses, especially when they've been asked by politiciansto do tawdry personal tasks.The Fraternal Order of Police has weighed in on the side of the officers. OnMonday, it publicly called on Leopold and Police Chief James Teare to resign. Itaccused Teare of not supporting his officers when they complained to him aboutLeopold's behavior.Finally, and perhaps most important, the charges focus less on sexualmisbehavior and more on inappropriate use of police officers. The public is morelikely to be unhappy about misspending public resources than personalimmorality.That concern, on top of past ones, could be enough to finally spoil Leopold'sstanding with the voters."There's a narrative that he's got personal judgment issues," Nataf said."There's smoke there, and you've got to wonder if there's fire."mccartneyr@washpost.comMcCartney will discuss local issues at 8:51 a.m. Friday on WAMU (88.5 FM). Toread his previous columns, go to washingtonpost.com/mccartney.