Being a new worker matters, to you and to your employer. But how much does itmatter what sex you are?Have things changed much since the days when your mother first started work,when it was a "man's" world? Or is the unisex bathroom on "Ally McBeal" thesymbol of today's workplace?Many women today entering their first or second job find that gender in theworkplace is not the issue it once was. The lines are blurring. Paid maternityleave and paternity leave, on-site child care, more women than men graduatingfrom college--all signs point to a gender-neutral workplace, especially thoserun by members of Generation X.But why are women so underrepresented among the executive class, 12.5 percentnationwide, at major corporations? And why are women still earning about 77cents for every dollar a man is earning? And what are young women who are justentering the workplace finding out about themselves and how co-workers andsupervisors feel about the issue?Before Holly Kwartler, 25, jumped from Kent State University into the wide worldof work, she thought a lot about gender issues in the workplace. "Gender wasvery much on my mind," she said. "I've been very pleased for the most part."She found it encouraging that the District-based law firm where she works as arecruiter and trainer throws baby showers not just for the women, but for themen as well. Women and men both have the option of working part time or withflexible schedules.These soft benefits are all a sign that social equality in the workplace isalive and well, but that doesn't mean Kwartler hasn't noticed a differencebetween young women and their male counterparts with regard to building earlycareer success."I think men are much better at not taking things personally . . . women maybepanic a little more," something she does herself, she admitted.But one thing that has certainly seemed to change with her generation ofworkers, she said, is overt sexual harassment.Kwartler thinks sexual harassment at firms filled with young people just comingout of college would be close to nil. "I have a lot of faith in young men," shesaid. "I think a lot of us who grew up with the Anita Hill-Clarence Thomashearings, we've been made aware of it."Susan Abrams, author of the book "The New Success Rules for Women," agrees thattoday's workplace is different than the one your mother entered. "It has changedand it will continue to change."Making ConnectionsKaren Elliott Greisdorf, 32, who runs her own communications company in theDistrict, helped develop a local networking group for young women calledTomorrow's Leaders Today. Part of Women of Washington, a large multigenerationalnetworking organization, TLT brings young professionals and aspiringprofessionals together for monthly discussions, presentations and networkingevents.The program was launched eight years ago, after Women of Washington held aluncheon called "The Big M" to focus on menopause. One young woman came to theevent thinking the Big M meant marriage.That was when several young women realized their generation's needs were notbeing met--they had concerns in regard to their lives and careers that weredifferent from their more experienced female counterparts."There have been a lot of women who have paved the way for our generation, butwe don't stop to think about how much ground has already been covered,"Greisdorf said. "A certain level of assertiveness is generationally built in"for young women now.That may be in part because organizations started making a concerted effort topump up the success and recruitment of women.Sue Molina, a partner at Deloitte & Touche and national director for thecompany's program Advancement of Women, started the women's initiative aboutseven years ago when the company found its rate of retaining and recruitingwomen was low compared with that of men."We concluded that our environment was male-dominated and it wasn't veryflexible," she said. "Women perceived their career opportunities were less thantheir male counterparts'."The initiative prompted gender-awareness seminars, formalized flex schedules andcareer-planning sessions. Since then, Molina said, things at Deloitte & Touchehave changed. Today, she said, "the women that are starting with us right out ofcollege have the same opportunities as men starting out."Don't Be ShyThough young women are coming into a friendlier workplace, where gender cansometimes be forgotten altogether, women by nature still have issues they needto overcome to succeed. Which is why Abrams writes about the "new" rules ofsuccess for women, because there are new rules, many that women will writethemselves."The first models for how to be a successful woman were to emulate men. . . . Ihad in the mid-'80s those man-tailored suits and blouses," said Abrams. "Thatwas very much the model. It meant that women had to act and dress like men. Butthat's not an effective long-term strategy. What works now is come to the tableand draw new experiences."In her book, Abrams draws on the experiences of many women leaders in theworkplace."I think oftentimes you hear about a woman's instinct, but in the businessworld, because women are newer to the game, they're less confident in speakingout and making their voice heard."Hence, communication is key. If you felt slighted because you didn't get to sitin on a particular meeting, ask to come along next time, Abrams said.Kwartler agrees, and she sees examples of her friends doing that."What I've witnessed in just talking to [other] women, if they don'tcommunicate, there are obstacles for them," Kwartler said. "If they communicate,they do quite well."Some women coming out of college today wouldn't think twice about speaking theirmind, but others fall back on politeness, thinking they need to keep quiet,respect their superiors and not express their desires. "We're socialized to bemore demure, to think about others," Abrams said.Start tooting your own horn, she said, and when you know there is something youwant, instead of just assuming it will be handed to you because you work hard,ask for it."When you have something that's important to you, let others know. Ask for thatkey assignment, key client, for a promotion or even the money," Abrams said. Ifwomen don't ask, they won't get, she said. "Women are convinced if they just doa great job, they will get promotions, raises or clients." Not so.Forging AheadThere are a few things young women can do to make sure they start getting themost out of their careers."You shouldn't assume that you're going into the workforce and you're not goingto encounter stereotypes. I think the overt discrimination has gone undergroundor been addressed, but there is a lot of subtle stuff going on," said MaryMattis, a senior research fellow at Catalyst, a women's research organization inNew York. So she has a few suggestions for young women that she says can helpthem to not be naive.When looking for a job, she said, check out the representation of women in thatcompany. Check to see if other women have been successful in advancing. Arethere women in a diverse range of jobs, on the board, among the corporateofficers? "That might help you gauge if it's a good environment for women," shesaid.If you're a young woman who plans to have a family, look at the leave policies,availability of a flexible schedule and benefits.And, of course, take advice and guidance from those who went before you andhelped to make the workplace a more gender-neutral environment."Women have more role models now," Mattis said. "But some women seem to berejecting those role models because they feel like they don't want to or have tomake the same choices, work the excessive hours to prove themselves. One thing Iwould advise younger women, don't reject those women who went before you."Join Amy Joyce for CareerTrack Live tomorrow from 11 a.m. to noon at www.washingtonpost.com. Share your stories, concerns and questions in a discussionabout careers.