"Dr. Laura" Schlessinger is one tough, sharp-tongued lady, and that's exactlywhat I like most about her nationally syndicated radio talk show.I don't always agree with her, but I admire the fact that Dr. Laura doesn'tbelieve there are any moral gray areas.For example, she's pretty blunt on the issue of "shacking up.""Don't do it," Dr. Laura flatly tells callers looking for advice on whether theyshould move in with their boyfriend or girlfriend. It's immoral to live togetherbefore marriage, she repeatedly points out to her millions of listeners. On thatissue, I agree. But let's set aside the moral arguments about why it's a badidea for unmarried couples to live together. Let's talk money.On the surface, it might seem to make sense for two people who are spending alot of time together to give up paying rent and utilities for two apartments andset up one household. But while it's generally true that two can live cheaperthan one, that's true only if the two stay together. The cost of abreakup--which is a frequent occurrence--isn't cheap in a number of ways.When I asked readers whether shacking up had worked for them, most said ithadn't. "Essentially, if it doesn't work out it's like a divorce, except youdon't have a legal leg to stand on," said Lisa, 29, who asked that her last namenot be used.Lisa and her most recent boyfriend had lived together in an apartment inVirginia for three years before deciding last year to rent a house. Three monthsafter moving into the house, the relationship soured and she moved out.What had originally been a cost-saving move turned into a financial mess, Lisasaid. I asked her to tally up what the experience cost her. Here's just apartial list of her expenses:She had to pay $ 2,850 in rent on the house she was no longer sharing with herboyfriend, in addition to the rent on her new apartment.She left behind about $ 4,000 worth of household goods.She spent $ 850 to buy some of the same household items--an iron, showercurtains, a television, etc.--for her new apartment.She spent $ 100 on newspaper ads trying to find someone to take over her half ofthe lease on the house she had rented with her ex.As dumb as shacking up can be, more and more people are doing it. Researchersreport that by 1997, the total number of unmarried cohabiting couples in theUnited States topped 4 million, up from less than half a million in 1960. Morethan half of all first marriages are now preceded by cohabitation, compared withvirtually none earlier in the century. And in surveys, most young people say itis a good idea to live with a person before marrying.But Lisa has been there, done that--twice."I used to think living together first was a good idea, but I have reconsideredsince my two attempts at living with someone before marriage were totalfiascoes," she said. "This is just a warning to all those lovebirds out therefrom someone who didn't learn from her mistake the first time."Two reports issued this month also provide evidence that shacking up is oftennot worth it for very practical and economic reasons.In its report "Should We Live Together?," the National Marriage Project atRutgers University examined a number of cohabiting studies around the world.Researchers found:Cohabiting couples are economically more like single parents than like marriedcouples. While the 1996 poverty rate for children living in married householdswas about 6 percent, it was 31 percent for children living in cohabitingsituations, which is close to the rate of 45 percent for children living infamilies headed by single mothers.People who live together before marriage have a 46 percent higher rate ofdivorce than people who don't live together before tying the knot.On the heels of the Rutgers report came a study by Cornell Universitysociologist Marin Clarkberg, who found that money plays a major role inpredicting which couples live together and which marry.Clarkberg found men and women who live together have less stable job historiesthan singles or spouses. Typically, men in such situations earn far less moneythan men who marry.In essence, people are living together not just to test-drive their potentialmarriage partner but to save money, Clarkberg concluded."I moved in with my boyfriend in the interest of saving money, but it was themost uncomfortable time of my life," Lisa said. "Funny thing was, we wanted thewhole thing--the nice house, fireplace, yard--just not marriage. But you thinkif it ends you can split up your stuff and work everything out like adults.Simple me."Michelle Singletary's column appears in this section every Sunday. While shewelcomes comments or column ideas, she cannot offer specific personal financialadvice. She will be discussing this column online Tuesday starting at 2 p.m. atwww.washingtonpost.com. Readers can write to her at the Washington Post, 115015th St. NW, Washington, D.C. 20071, or via e-mail at singletarym@washpost.com.A Look at Living TogetherMoney and jobs play a major role in predicting who cohabits and who marries,concluded Marin Clarkberg, a Cornell University assistant professor ofsociology. Among the findings from Clarkberg's study, released this month:Women who choose cohabitation are likely to earn more than either single ormarried women.Men who cohabit typically earn far less money than men who marry.Men and women who cohabit have less stable job histories than singles orspouses.Although economic uncertainty seems to prevent some couples from proceeding downthe aisle, it promotes cohabitation.Researchers David Popenoe and Barbara Dafoe Whitehead, who recently released areport called "Should We Live Together?," offer this advice on cohabiting:Consider not living together at all before marriage. Studies show thatcohabitation appears not to be helpful and may be harmful as a tryout formarriage.Do not make a habit of cohabiting. Multiple cohabiting is a strong predictor ofthe failure of future relationships.If you feel you must cohabit, limit it to the shortest possible period of time.Cohabiting is probably least harmful when it is prenuptial -- when both partnersare definitely planning to marry, have formally announced their engagement andhave picked a wedding date.Do not cohabit if children are involved. Cohabiting parents break up at a muchhigher rate than married parents. Moreover, children living in cohabiting unionsare at a higher risk of sexual abuse and physical violence than are childrenliving with married parents.