The good times - at least for political reporters and pundits - are pretty muchover. It has been a wonderfully wacky GOP primary fight, with endless debatesand new front-runners du jour.Conservative Republicans were saying "anyone but Romney." Reporters were rootingfor "everyone and Romney."But the post-New Hampshire reality is setting in.Texas Gov. Rick Perry got 1,766 votes in New Hampshire. That's out of nearly aquarter of a million votes cast. A whopping 0.7 percent. (He beat Herman Cain,who had already dropped out, by only 1,600 votes.)Seems pretty certain that the implausible Perry, who gave us that historic"oops" moment that the press milked for weeks, is gone.We've already lost the always fun Rep. Michele Bachmann and her delightfulhusband. Ditto for Cain, the former Godfather's Pizza CEO, who, in addition toallegations of serious sexual misconduct - which, by the way, we naturallychased after - treated us to that hilarious appearance before the MilwaukeeJournal Sentinel editorial board. Who can forget him trying to focus on theright Libya - as opposed to that other one - and to get control of "all of thisstuff twirling around in my head."Former Utah governor Jon Huntsman wasn't exactly Mr. Excitement, but he provideda little ballast at times. He came in a disappointing third after practicallymoving from Kalorama to New Hampshire for the past few months.Even worse, he's now trailing comedian Stephen Colbert in South Carolina - thenext primary, on Jan. 21 - with 4 percent to Colbert's 5 percent in ahypothetical matchup, according to a Public Policy Polling.Former House speaker Newt Gingrich, despite the New Hampshire Union Leader'sfull-throated endorsement, got only 9.4 percent of the vote, tied with formersenator Rick Santorum. Both of them look to be on the ropes now - Newt's bravadonotwithstanding.And the 76-year-old Rep. Ron Paul (R-Tex.) may hang in there a bit longer, buthe came in more than 16 points behind Romney on Tuesday.There's plenty of big money around, so candidates will probably stagger on, butthey might as well invite country singer Lucinda Williams to the Monday debatein Myrtle Beach to sing a line from an old hit: "It's over - I know it, but Ican't let go."Republicans and reporters may be in denial, but the reality is, barring somemiracle, it's going to be the boring, awkward Mitt against the used Barack - nolonger the champion of hopey-changey.Well, there's always Casey Anthony.We watch for youWe screened the debut episode of former senator Arlen Specter's new TV show,which airs Friday night, and we've saved you the half-hour with this roundup ofhighlights.First, the real star of the show isn't the former Senate Judiciary Committeechairman and his ambling ruminations on money in politics, but rather formersenator Fred Thompson's beard."The Law & Order"actor - one of Specter's guests - sports a hipster-esquesalt-and-pepper goatee that we thought was the most newsworthy feature of thetalk show.The snappiest line of the program, which airs on Maryland Public Television,came courtesy of former senator Evan Bayh (R-Ind.). "An immaculatecontribution," Bayh dubbed a political donation that doesn't affect a lawmaker'svote.Zing!Also, look out for folks you know among the viewer audience (ooh, look, it'sNina Totenberg!) that Specter periodically questions, Oprah-style (spoileralert: they don't all win trips to Australia).The effect is that of an early PBS talk show, complete with Specter looking atthe wrong camera, odd musical interludes and an Edward R. Murrow-like sign-off.And if all this doesn't sound fascinating enough, may we suggest turning theresolutely sober program into a drinking game? Take a sip every time anyone says"Citizens United," "money" or "politics." Do a shot any time Specter cracks asmile or the phrase "stare decisis" is uttered.Who says this isn't must-see-TV?Poisoned? Well . . .President Obama's decision last week to override the Senate and make recessappointments ticked off Republicans - and now, let the Hill aftershockscommence!One possible victim of the sour mood caused by the recess appointments is aheretofore innocuous bipartisan bill that would streamline the Senateconfirmation process.The bill, which is aimed at making the notoriously lumbering chamber moreefficient by reducing the number of presidential appointees requiring a Senatevote, cleared the Senate back in July. Since then, it's been languishing in theHouse.And now we're hearing that the bill might never see the light of day.The subject of confirmations has turned toxic on Capitol Hill, where Republicansin both chambers are smarting from Obama's end run around Senate Republicans'gambit to keep the president from making recess appointments by technicallykeeping the chamber in session - even though the "sessions" lasted mere secondseach day.The Justice Department this week backed up Obama's strategy, saying it wasperfectly within his authority.But not everyone on the Hill agrees."The president pretty much poisoned the well on the whole subject matter," saysone Republican staffer. "If you bring that bill up now you'd get a big fight."Advocates for the bill were hoping for smoother sailing. They anticipated theHouse would simply pass the bill in deference to the Senate - since Senate GOPleaders backed it, and because it deals solely with the business of "the upperchamber.""This should be the Senate's prerogative, and we would hope that the House woulddefer to that judgment," says Max Stier, president of the Partnership for PublicService, a bipartisan good-government group.While that might - might - have been the case just a few weeks ago, it'scertainly not now.Breaking news!The president, speaking at a fundraiser Wednesday night at a private home inChicago, unloaded this bombshell:Obama, according to the White House transcript, talked about "The first bill Isigned - a bill that said that we're going to have equal pay for equal workbecause I want my daughters treated the same way as my sons."Sons? What sons? How many? Where? Names? Do the girls know? (More important,does Michelle?)Will the boys be joining him on the campaign trail?With Emily Heilkamena@washpost.comThe blog: washingtonpost.com/intheloop. Twitter: @InTheLoopWP.