Norwegian director Hans Petter Moland's "Aberdeen" takes a well-worn road --the route to reconciliation between parent and child -- and makes it fresh,thanks to corrosively watchable performances by Stellan Skarsgard and LenaHeadey as an alcoholic father and his estranged, cokehead daughter. Oh, thereare sentimental potholes that line this path (some of them laid there by thefilmmaker himself), but Moland's cold and clear-eyed film ultimately swerves toavoid them all, always choosing delicious ambiguity over the easy out. GiftedScottish actress Headey plays Kaisa, a successful but unhappy lawyer in a Londonfirm conscripted into service by her dying mother (Charlotte Rampling in toosmall a part) to dragoon Kaisa's stinking-drunk father, Tomas (Skarsgard, in ablistering tour de force), from Norway to Scotland for a family reunion of sortsbefore mom expires. Along the way, Tomas embarrasses and insults Kaisa innumerous ways.Vomiting on her and stealing from her are only the most flagrant. Hers is aliteral burden, no less cumbersome than a 200-pound sack of urine- andbooze-soaked potatoes. Into the mix comes a kindhearted trucker named Clive (IanHart, ever charming in his homuncular way), who gives a lift in more ways thanone to Kaisa and her perpetually inebriated human baggage, while avoidingbecoming the knight in shining armor we're used to. "Aberdeen" has the feel ofthe morning after. It minces neither words nor emotions, and its conclusion,which no one could call happy, smacks more of detente brought on by fatigue thanclosure. Contains obscenity, alcohol and drug abuse, an auto accident, a streetmugging, sex and nudity.  At the Cinema Arts Theatre. For a full version of thisreview, which originally ran Sept. 14, go to: www.washingtonpost.com/movies.-- Michael O'SullivanWhat is most shocking about this difficult and flawed feature debut fromfilmmaker Michael Cuesta is not its controversial NC-17 rating or the subjectmatter of pedophilia. It is the fact that Cuesta, who co-wrote the film withStephen M. Ryder and brother Gerald Cuesta, manages to make its most difficultcharacter, a creepy guy in his fifties who seduces underage boys in amiddle-class Long Island community, sympathetic -- even heroic. But that'smainly because of a nuanced performance by Brian Cox as Big John Harrigan. In arole that challenges our very notion of morality, Cox comes across as bothpredatory and fatherly, sometimes at once, in an acting turn as astonishing asit is stomach-turning. "L.I.E." is really his story, despite the fact that thefilm unfolds from the point of view of 15-year-old Howie (Paul Franklin Dano),an affluent and sexually ambiguous punk with a gift for poetry. After Howie andhis friend Gary (Billy Kay) break into Big John's home and steal a pair ofantique guns, Big John, an ex-Marine who has been buying sex from Gary, tracksHowie down. Their relationship, which veers from hunter and hunted to adisturbing fusion of the erotic and the avuncular, is the film's most compellingelement. As Howie, whose mother has recently died in a car accident on the LongIsland Expressway (hence the punning title) and whose crooked contractor fatheris about to be busted by the FBI, falls under Big John's spell, Big John becomesmore surrogate caregiver than sugar daddy. Dramatically, though, Cuesta paintshimself into a corner. He can't bring himself to fully redeem Big John, so heresorts to a cop-out ending whose cheesily punitive dose of poetic justice canbe seen barreling down on us like an 18-wheeler. Contains obscenity, a shooting,hooliganism and the overarching theme of pedophilia. At VisionsCinema/Bistro/Lounge.-- Michael O'Sullivan