Can federal employees point and click their way to successful careers? Wille-training replace the classroom? The Bush administration hopes so.Last week, the Office of Personnel Management said 5,000 people have enrolledfor free courses at the Government Online Learning Center since its launch July23. More than 1 million visitors have toured the Internet site(www.golearn.gov).The 3-D learning center connects federal employees to more than 30 free courseprograms, 50 electronic books and a nationwide resource center of libraries andreference materials.Enrollees can log onto the system round-the-clock, seven days a week, to takecourses in computer security, software use, professional development,communications, prevention of sexual harassment and other topics.Over time, the online center will integrate electronic training opportunitiesfrom across the government and offer a menu of "core courses" to federalemployees. Administration officials hope it will offset one of the government'schronic problems -- a shortage of budget dollars to finance training and travelto training sites.The center builds off an electronic training program developed at theTransportation Department. The Transportation Virtual University, run by theTransportation Administrative Service Center, provides more than 50,000 federalemployees at 40 agencies with college-accredited courses.OPM serves as the managing partner for the government-wide site, which wasdeveloped with assistance from several Cabinet departments and the Office ofManagement and Budget.Four vendors -- GeoLearning, SkillSoft, NetG and Karta -- are providing courses.The contract gives the government the option of including up to 5,000 courses.Officials expect to add the next set of classes this year.At the launch ceremony, OPM Director Kay Coles James called the new Internetsite "a significant milepost . . . on the road to e-government." She said thesite would increase the government's ability to attract college graduates, wholook to employers to provide opportunities for training and professionaldevelopment.She was joined at the launch by Mark W. Everson, the deputy director formanagement at OMB, and Mark Forman, OMB's associate director for informationtechnology and e-government. Forman predicted the site would have "a tremendousimpact on the professionalism of the government."The tally is in on the tapping of the trust funds.To avoid busting the public debt limit, the Treasury Department held back $ 38.2billion from two federal employee funds during May and June.Because Congress did not raise the debt ceiling until late June, Treasury wasforced to suspend investments in the Civil Service Retirement and DisabilityFund and the Government Securities Investment Fund, or G Fund, of the ThriftSavings Plan.Congress voted June 27 to raise the legal limit on government borrowing to $ 6.4trillion. The limit had been $ 5.9 trillion.The May-June bookkeeping maneuvers marked the second time this year Treasurysuspended investments in an employee fund. In April, Treasury restored $ 27.7million in interest to the G Fund.In a letter to congressional leaders regarding the May-June investmentsuspensions, Brian Roseboro, Treasury's assistant secretary for domesticfinance, said the civil service retirement fund and the G Fund "were fullyrestored to the condition in which each would have been had there not been adebt issuance suspension period."The federal long-term care insurance program, which is accepting applicationsfor coverage through the end of this year, will offer briefings for federalretirees Wednesday. The briefings will be at 10 a.m., 2 p.m. and 7 p.m. at theSilver Spring Hilton on Colesville Road. To reserve a seat, call 800-582-3337.Confused by the federal hiring process? Send your questions to Kathryn KraemerTroutman, founder of the Resume Place, at noon Wednesday on Federal Diary Liveat www.washingtonpost.com.Stephen Barr's e-mail address is barrs@washpost.com.