TODAY IS MONDAY, and a Monday presents the fewest hassles for a high schoolsecurity chief, Wally Baranyk will tell you. "They come in feeling pretty goodfrom the weekend and usually not acting like knuckleheads on Monday," he says.Knucklehead is one of Baranyk's favorite terms. "But it can only get worse fromhere."A retired deputy chief of the Fairfax County Police Department, the 54-year-oldBaranyk nowadays heads up the four-person security team at Oakton High School inVienna, which has never, in his three years there, had a security incident thathe'd call frightening  --  no sexual assaults, no fights that put anybody in ahospital, no teachers attacked, no kids who flipped out and did harm to a group,no gang brawls, no stabbings, no shootings. Still, Oakton  --  which is, by allmeasures, an elite public high school, ranking 104th on Newsweek's list of the1,200 best public high schools in the country  --  is no sanctuary from troubleor anxiety; no high school nowadays ever is.It is only 8:45 a.m. on Monday, but already a kid is being asked to visit thesecurity office, not summoned, "just asked to drop by for a little talk,"Baranyk explains. "We want to keep it low-key with this kid for now." The kid,he notes, has been in frequent trouble at school, and is now accused by hisex-girlfriend of threatening to beat up another student. The situation has grownmore alarming because suspicion is building that the troubled boy may beassociated with a gang and that his threatened foil  --  who says he was beatenup by another Oakton student just three days earlier  --  has ignored a drugdebt; the story is that he either was given or stole marijuana that belonged toother boys, and hasn't paid them back. Baranyk would like to bust someone forthe assault, but he doesn't have a witness, besides the victim, whosecredibility has never been rock solid. Baranyk is hoping, among other things,that the kid coming to his office now might be able to fill in some blanks, inaddition to confessing to his own wrongdoing.The kid arrives. He is tall, rangy and agitated-looking. Baranyk, a couple ofinches shorter than the kid, gestures at a chair. The kid is pacing. A thin manmarked as middle-aged by bags under his eyes, Baranyk carries neither a policebaton nor anything else to restrain the unruly. But in his cream polo shirt withOakton Security stitched on it, he has the right bearing  --  lithe and fit,with taut forearms  --  and a manner that says he is unfazed by trouble."Hi, good to see you," Baranyk says brightly. "How are you?""I'm pissed off," the kid says.Baranyk lets him vent."Like why do I gotta waste my time?" the kid snaps. "People lyin'. You know whatI'm sayin'? Pissed off.""Gosh, and you've been doing so well lately, which I'm proud of," Baranyk saysgently. "Hey, just tell me what's going on, so I can help.""Everybody knows what happened. People are lying and snitching on me."Baranyk says what the kid already knows: Witnesses have claimed he threatened aboy."Oh, man," the kid groans. "You gonna believe that?""Okay," Baranyk says. "Let's just go over what is  -- "The kid clucks his tongue and cuts off Baranyk. "Listen, listen, listen, man,"he says, wagging a finger. "Just listen."Baranyk, ignoring the insubordination, nods."I didn't threaten nobody, man," the boy says. "I was just there."Baranyk nods. "Okay, well, you were just there, and what happened?"The kid shrugs. He yanks his head back and looks up at the ceiling. "I didn'tthreaten. I just said to this other dude I'd watch his back, that's all. I saidI'd watch his back 'cause [he and the boy] were arguing." He lowers his head,looks at Baranyk. "I didn't do nothing they said I did."Baranyk's eyes start blinking. It is a tic of sorts that sometimes comes overhim during moments of intense concentration, when he is trying to piece togethera puzzle. "So what was the argument about?"The boy shrugs. "Just arguing, I don't know."Baranyk says something else that the kid already knows: One of the witnesses washis ex-girlfriend."She'll say anything," the boy fumes.Baranyk says that witnesses are accusing him of threatening her, too."Oh, man," the boy mumbles.Baranyk swings his chair a bit closer. "Look, you want to get out of here,right?" he whispers, meaning graduate and get out of high school. "Most of allyou want to be gone. We both know that. Right?"The kid shrugs. "Yeah, I've been trying.""Right now you need  -- "The kid interrupts again, yelling: "Come on, man. Why are they snitching me out?I wasn't assaulting on the kid."It is the first time that either of them has referred to an assault, real orimagined, against the boy who said he was beaten up three days earlier. The boyadds: "He got beat up, but I didn't do it . . . I don't know who did it.""What was this argument about, the one between the two kids that you heard?""They were just arguing, man."Baranyk decides that is enough for now with the boy. He might bring the kid backlater if he can't otherwise learn what triggered the assault. "Remember what Isaid," he reminds the boy. "Think about how you want to get out of here withyour diploma. You  --  "The boy, half-listening, talks over Baranyk. "I've been assaulted before, but Idon't snitch anybody out," he says. "I won't back down, but I don't snitchanybody out. I  -- "Baranyk cuts him off. "Hey." The change in Baranyk's tone catches the boy bysurprise."If somebody hits you, you make the good judgment and walk away," Baranyk says."Are you listening?"The boy shrugs."Let's keep doing well," he says.The boy shakes Baranyk's hand and heads out."Hard to know the truth there," Baranyk says. "He might just be an occasionalknucklehead doing knuckleheaded things. I just want to get him out of school byJune; that's my goal. Sometimes you just want to get them through your schooland get them out."It's soon 11 o'clock, already time for the first in a series of lunches in thecafeteria. There's usually a fight a week in the Oakton cafeteria. Today, it'spretty quiet, and as he walks around, Baranyk shifts his attention to a kid inan oversize black T-shirt seated alone at the corner of a long table."Hey, what's up?" Baranyk says to the boy, grinning.The kid stares up at the adult, frozen for an instant. "Hey," he mumbles,lifting a finger in acknowledgment."Good seeing you." Baranyk summons his cheeriest tone. "Things good?""Yeah," the boy says, looking around.The boy has had a couple of disciplinary problems in classrooms, nothing major,but Baranyk keeps an eye on him, hoping to forge a connection and seeingsomething in the boy he can't help but like, some stoicism, perhaps. He takes ashort step closer to the kid. "Hungry?" he asks, lowering his voice.The boy shakes his head."You had something to eat?" Baranyk asks him.The boy looks up, looks down, talks into his hands. "I'm fine."Baranyk takes a step back. He has heard reports from cafeteria workers thatsometimes the boy picks up food from the cafeteria line and conceals it. When hefeels himself spotted, the boy puts the food back on the cafeteria counter andwalks away, according to the workers. A couple of exasperated employees havetold Baranyk that they can't sell the food after the boy has handled it. They'veasked him to intercede.Since he has seldom seen the kid with any money, Baranyk guesses that he'salmost always broke. He occasionally offers the boy a couple of bucks to buyfood, careful not to patronize him by expressing sympathy or by asking aboutthings at home. He makes certain that no other students are around when heextends help. His discreet approach wins out sometimes. On those days, this kidaccepts a couple of dollars and hurries into the cafeteria line; though othertimes, the kid quietly refuses the money. Baranyk will tell him: I've got aslush fund; it's money dropped off at Lost and Found.And that is the truth: At that moment, there's $180 in the security department'sslush fund. Ultra-casually, Baranyk says: "I can't wait for spring break. Whatare you doin' on the break?"The kid looks up, pleased by the question. "Maybe driving to see some relatives.Maybe.""Hey, that's great." Baranyk keeps smiling. "Great." Baranyk takes a last lookaround, whispers: "Hey, you sure you don't want a couple bucks from the slushfund? You know me  --  I gotta give it away.""I'm fine," the kid says firmly."Okay, well, keep doin' great. Good to see you."The boy lifts an index finger.Baranyk's walkie-talkie reports that "three unidentified young men are runningacross the lawn trying to escape."And, the report adds, a kid is wandering alone outside.The loner concerns him more. A couple of weeks earlier, a distraught kid whosegirlfriend had broken up with him dropped to his knees in front of the schooland began pounding his head on a sidewalk. He didn't hurt himself badly, butBaranyk still had concerns. "In security, we had to ask ourselves: Could thiskid come back to school with a weapon?"Baranyk offers no guarantees about security at Oakton. "We take every reasonableprecaution, but we're not a prison," he says, "and there are ways in and out ofhere, which means there are limits to what we can do."Besides, preventive measures get you only so far with many teenagers. By the endof Monday, Baranyk is still concerned about the kid who said he was assaulted,and maybe since threatened, determined to get to the bottom of the story byweek's end. He worries that the boy will get beaten up again if he doesn'tdisclose what he knows to security. But he has no idea how he's going to getthis kid to talk.Like all Fairfax public high schools and middle schools, Oakton has a singlearmed uniformed officer from the county's police department on campus  --  knownas the school resource officer  --  whose responsibilities include arrestingstudent lawbreakers. With the school resource officer and his own four-personteam, Baranyk likes security to be seen but not felt, if such a thing ispossible.Oakton High is synonymous in the Washington area with safety, stability andsuccess. Its high-achieving students include a senior girl recently named awinner in a national high school essay contest sponsored by Oprah Winfrey. Theschool parking lot is sprinkled with the occasional Mercedes and Lexus, andamong the student body have been the children of a congressman and othergovernmental officials. Most of its kids, like the surrounding community, aremiddle class, but there are some students from poor and working-class homes,with 9 percent of students receiving federally funded school lunches. Oakton'smajority is white, but the school has significant blocs of African Americans,Asian Americans and Hispanics. More than 400 of the school's approximately 2,400students are foreign-born, speaking 45 languages and coming from 83 countries,including Iran, Iraq, Afghanistan, Saudi Arabia, Somalia, Pakistan, India, ElSalvador, Nicaragua, Russia, Uzbekistan, Thailand and Vietnam."We've been pretty fortunate in most areas," Baranyk says of his relativelyserene tenure, which he says has included no spike in the indices that he paysmost attention to  --  fights, larceny, drug use and classic bullying. "I thinkthis is about as ideal a situation as a public school can have. But still . . ."The comfort of working security in the suburbs, he says, can be delusional:Baranyk believes most of the wrongdoing at suburban high schools occurs deep inthe shadows.In the wake of studies showing a national increase in school-based crime andviolence, security personnel made their entrance into many public school systemsduring the early 1980s, including Fairfax County, the largest Virginia schooldistrict. By the mid-'90s, uniformed and armed police officers had arrived onthe scene in Fairfax.Fairfax's reputation for secure schools is enhanced whenever mayhem befallsother school districts in the Washington area. The fatal stabbing of a teenagegirl in the parking lot of Montgomery County's Blake High School was just one oftwo deadly teen attacks tied to football games in that county last September. Amonth earlier, two students were stabbed outside Montgomery's Springbrook HighSchool in what reports characterized as a gang-related incident. In April, therewere drive-by shootings of two students just outside the District's RooseveltHigh School.State agencies in Maryland and Virginia have reported a five-year increase inthe number of weapons confiscated at schools, despite a national trend thatshows a decrease in seized weapons. Baranyk hasn't had to seize a single gun,knife or shank. Oh, once he confiscated a machete from a kid, but that's onlybecause the kid had brought it as a prop to a drama class. Similarly, despitenational worries about youth gangs, Oakton has never been plagued by organizedcrews, although Baranyk believes there are gang members among the students, asevidenced by graffiti that has appeared on campus over the last year.Oakton's challenges, and approach to security issues, differ strikingly fromthose in many urban school systems. The D.C. system's chief of security,Theodore Tuckson, has dealt long enough with gang problems to have createdconflict resolution programs for mediating disputes. That school system touts aslogan that encapsulates a multi-pronged anti-gang strategy: "Intervention,Prevention, and Suppression." While much of the rule-breaking at Oakton occursout of sight from faculty and staff members, insubordination at D.C. schools ismore often on public display. "I think our biggest problem here is lack ofrespect by kids for teachers and adults and for other kids," says MichaelIlwain, a school resource officer at Eastern High School in NortheastWashington. "It leads to disrespect and bad behavior in classrooms, and it leadsto fights, too. Almost all our problems start from there . . . But I also thinkthat, in these times, we have some of the same things to face as other schools."Those things include the spectacularly dire. At Oakton, as at any other21st-century high school, Baranyk must ponder scenarios that once would havebeen unthinkable. He has had to devise meticulous plans for how Oakton staffmembers and students would respond in an emergency or a catastrophic event,including a terrorist's biological or chemical strike, or the spread of apotentially lethal virus. "Security at a school means something different nowthan 20 years ago . . ." he says. "You can try preparing for problems, but it'shard to know what they all will look like . . . I guess you're trying to imaginethe unimaginable."TuesdayThe next morning, Baranyk receives a report that the allegedly assaulted boy hasdisappeared from school.Baranyk, who has heard now that three kids have threatened that boy, suggests toRick Mey, the uniformed school resource officer, that they go looking for him.Before they leave, Baranyk runs into one of Oakton's assistant principals, MarkPenn, who says he has had a brief conversation with the boy. Penn says the boynow has a possible explanation: that he recently found some marijuana at theplayground of a subdivision bordering the school but then threw the drugs away.And perhaps they belonged to his tormentors."This isn't sounding any better," says Baranyk, who decides to search someplaygrounds that Oakton kids frequent. He gets into Mey's squad car, and the mencruise a few blocks to the first of two townhouse complexes, where they park infront of a small playground with a swing set. The kid is not around.After checking out another empty playground at another subdivision, Mey andBaranyk drive a couple of blocks to a bridge that overlooks Interstate 66. Theyget out of the car and scramble down a slope to another known teen hideout. Anempty discarded backpack lies in a heap alongside a cigarette pack, a crushedbeer can and an orange juice carton.Baranyk turns to Mey. "Where else could we look for this knucklehead?" Meyshrugs.The men climb back up the slope toward the squad car. At that moment, the boywhom Baranyk questioned the day before about having allegedly threatened thismissing kid appears out of nowhere, strolling in their direction."Look who's here," Baranyk shouts, laughing. "Look who's here."The kid keeps walking toward them."How're you doing?" Baranyk asks him."Okay," the kid says calmly. "My classes are over.""You seen your buddy walking back here?" Baranyk mentions the missing boy'sname. "We're lookin' around for him. He really wanted to get out of school forsome reason. He was bookin' it." Baranyk mentions the name again."I don't know who he is," this kid says."Really?""Never heard that name."Baranyk takes a long look at him. "All right then. Stay straight."Baranyk watches the kid saunter off. "That is a very cool kid," he says softly."But on the other hand it could be, I don't know, maybe he isn't involved in anyof this." He considers it within the realm of possibility that the missing boy,whom he also regards as clever, has orchestrated these stories about threatsmade against him to bring heat on these other boys, to get them to leave himalone about a drug debt.Baranyk returns to the school and swiftly does a hallway patrol before steppinginto the cafeteria. He is pleased to see that the kid to whom he tried givinglunch money yesterday has some company. "Hey," he says to the kid, who is seatedacross a table from a disabled boy Baranyk recognizes, a boy beaten up earlierin the year by a kid since expelled for the assault. The disabled boy is happilymunching on a sandwich and jabbering nonstop as the other kid, who has no lunchin front of him for a second straight day, contentedly nods, sometimes smiling.Their friendship was born of trouble: Friends of the bully had continued mockingthe disabled boy long after the assault. Baranyk worried that the boy might beattacked again by someone wanting payback for the bully's expulsion. It wasabout then, according to Baranyk, that this other kid intervened out of nowhereduring yet another day of mocking, ready to fight in defense of the disabledboy. In spite of his duty to prevent such confrontations, the moment revealed astreak of character and compassion that has endeared the protector to Baranyk."You guys look like you're doing good," he says. "Spring break's almost here,almost here."When the disabled boy runs off to say hi to somebody else, Baranyk bends. "Needanything?" he asks the other kid.A shake of the head.Baranyk smiles, gives him a pat on the shoulder and heads off. His walkie-talkiesquawks: The missing boy whom they'd looked for alongside I-66 is back. He wasat McDonald's.Wally Baranyk had a rowdy period as a teenager, which he suspects makes iteasier for him to relate to kids who've run into a little trouble and to believethat most of them will settle down in time. Growing up in little Sayre, Pa., heplayed high school football but also had a fondness for, as he puts it, "raisingsome hell, doing things like egging cars. My brothers did, too." The localpolice paid several visits to the Baranyk home. "If something happened nearby,the police usually had good reason to think one of the Baranyk boys hadsomething to do with it," he says sheepishly. "Maybe those visits had someeffect on what I did after that." What he did was attend York College inPennsylvania, where he got a degree in criminal justice. "I guess I must haveliked the police officers I met," he says.He's standing in an Oakton hallway, alongside a restroom, watching students walkbetween classes. If you want to know something about the difference betweenschool security now and a generation ago, start by watching the restrooms. Evenduring breaks, restrooms are relatively quiet at Oakton. Back when Baranyk wasin high school in the late 1960s, you would enter a crowded boys' restroom atlunchtime to find music blaring and a nicotine cloud thick enough to rival thatof a good blues club. It was the closest thing on school grounds to a bowery.That was in the days before school security specialists like Baranyk, who cameto Oakton after a grueling 27-year career with the Fairfax police. Throughoutthe childhood of his two sons, he worked 60- to 70-hour weeks, ascending tooversee divisions that included organized crime and narcotics. "I was neverreally off duty," he says. The hours took a toll on him. "I knew I didn't havethe energy or interest to jump into a chief job somewhere, even if one wereavailable . . . It was time to reassess things."His personal life had reached a crossroads, too: He was going through a divorceand feeling guilty over not spending more time with his sons who, by then, wereteenagers. In 2002, he retired from the police department. "I needed to find thekind of employment that would enable me to have a life where I could be aroundmy boys as much as possible," he says. "A school seemed like the perfect job."Baranyk got a teaching credential and was hired as a government and historyteacher at Osbourn High School in Manassas. He lasted a year before deciding thejob wasn't for him. "I found out I was more comfortable dealing withanti-terrorism than a classroom," he says.When Oakton's security position came open, in 2003, Baranyk accepted. "It wasjust what I wanted to hear: 194 [working] days a year, with summers and schoolvacations off. And I get to wear this."He laughs, fingering his Oakton Security polo shirt, a uniform underscoring theimpression of a loose and contented man. He remarried in 2004 and now has twoteenage stepdaughters. Not so long ago he imagined that working in a high schoolsecurity office would help him grasp the thinking of the teens living under hisroof, to read their moods and motivations. "But, if anything, my working at ahigh school has maybe made it harder to understand them," he says. "Or maybeit's that I've begun to think it's harder to ever understand teenagerscompletely  --  because I see so many different kinds of [incidents] and kids."What works at Oakton does not always work at home, and vice versa. He remembersa family dinner during which he told his youngest son, a senior at anotherFairfax high school, about an Oakton boy who had received a three-day suspensionfor fighting. Missing so much school might jeopardize the suspended kid'sperformance on tests and, in turn, harm his grades and college admissionchances, Baranyk said. He reminded his son that, if for no other reason, heneeded to avoid fights to protect his own chances.Dad, if somebody is being a jerk and getting in my face, I'm going to pop him,Baranyk remembers his son telling him.No, when you're angry in those situations, you gotta stop and show restraint,Baranyk responded.I'm going to stand up for myself, Dad."I'm fortunate," Baranyk says. "He's stayed out of trouble, and he's beenadmitted to a good [college]. But I'm also aware that only so much I say isgoing to make it through to him or any other kid that age."When Baranyk talks about teenage life, it sounds like an underworld. He hasdeeply personal reasons for wanting to penetrate it, especially when he suspectsthat drugs have entered a kid's life. His youngest brother died under suspiciouscircumstances last month after a 10-year battle with drugs, Baranyk says. Hestill struggles to understand where his kin went off the path."I've had a good life, and my [other siblings] have had good lives, but it's arisk even for a good person once he starts using drugs," Baranyk observes. "Itcan be difficult to stop. We all warned him to get the hell away from it, but itwas too hard for him. He had other problems; he went the other way. It's one ofthe reasons why I'm tougher on our students and tougher on my own [children]. IfI can do anything to keep anybody away from that stuff, I'm going to do it."He wants to connect however he can. Most of the time, this means catchingwrongdoers. His resolve can be maniacal when tested, as it was one morningearlier this school year. He had been at his home in Centreville, gettingdressed for work, when he looked out the window and saw a young man running downhis street and knocking over curbside mailboxes, including Baranyk's. "I wentoutside, and the guy screamed something crazy at me," Baranyk remembers. "Helooked wild; he looked like he'd been living in the woods. I knew he was ondrugs." Without shoes on, Baranyk started chasing him.The young man was fleet, but Baranyk stayed close, as he tells the story. Hefelt a tad silly conducting a chase along pavement in his socks;self-consciousness eventually gave way to pain. The pursuit consumed the nexthour and 20 minutes, he says, off the streets and into woods. Along the way, heoccasionally flagged down motorists. "Please call 911," he asked. "Tell themWally Baranyk is chasing a suspect."A police helicopter was soon circling overhead. Now and then, the young manstopped and turned around to see his older pursuer still there. He resumedrunning while bellowing painfully at Baranyk, who was in his own acute distressby then, his right foot throbbing from stepping on rocks.The young man turned again and screamed at him: "Why are you chasing me? Goaway.""I'm sorry, I can't," Baranyk yelled back.Finally, with the helicopter circling, the young man gave up. Baranyk and hisneighbors declined to press charges for the toppled mailboxes, on the conditionthat the young man get himself treated for substance abuse. "But making peopleface up to what they've done and get themselves help is what you have to insistupon," he says. "And to do that you usually have to catch them first."WednesdayBaranyk has gone two days without setting eyes on the kid who said he wasassaulted. But today, while walking through the halls between classes, he runsinto him. "Hey, there. You all right?"The kid, clucking his tongue, exudes surprise. "Yeah. Fine. Why?""Really? Everything good?"Arching his eyebrows, the boy stares quizzically at Baranyk and sighs every fewseconds. He has mastered the passive-aggressive thing. "Yeah. Why?""Why were you bookin' it out of here yesterday?""I didn't like [a class] is all. It bores me.""So you don't like a class, and you just leave?"The kid shrugs."Everything okay with you and these other guys now?""I don't care, like, what's their problem?" the kid says coolly. "It's stupid. Ijust wish they'd leave me alone.""Why won't they leave you alone?"The boy takes his time before responding. "I don't know," he mutters.Baranyk steps closer to the boy and bends to eye level. "You know, you don't owethese kids anything. So if you have a disagreement with them  --  if you need tocome to us and let us know something they're doing to you, then you should doit. They haven't been friends to you. You don't owe them anything. So if there'sanything to tell us  -- ""There isn't." The kid drops his head. "It's fine. I can take care of it.""You know we're always here to help you." Baranyk says this so earnestly thatthe kid lifts his head and looks him over for a moment. "Always here. You shouldknow that."Maybe the security team can still reach him, Baranyk thinks, which in this casewould mean getting the boy to ask for help and spill the entire story. Orperhaps some eyewitness  --  say, a disgusted buddy who overheard somethingbetween the other boys involved  --  will come forward. As in his police days,Baranyk will promise to give anonymity to any informer. Without that pledge, hesays, many of his best sources of information at Oakton would have dried up longago, just as on the streets.Except here, different rules apply. Having a circle of students confidentiallyfeeding him information also means that Baranyk sometimes hears painedadmissions from kids about their own lives. "If kids let me know they've donesomething knuckleheaded, and they've come to me in confidence, then what do Ido?" he asks. "My feeling is that if it's an immediate health issue or problem,I will call [the students' parents]. Otherwise it's a judgment call. If I calleda parent each and every time somebody confided, then those students would nevertalk to me again. And if I did it, and word got out about it to the rest of theschool, no other student would talk to me, either."Later, a girl approaches and taps him on the arm."What's up?" he asks.She shows off her scanty tank top, whining when Baranyk says that her baremidriff violates the dress code."Hey, I need to tell you something," she says."What?"She whispers something to him."Okay, thanks," he says as she walks off. She has given him news about somethinghappening on campus.Even with his resolve and his sources, Baranyk can't hear about everything. In ahallway, near the school trophy case, a 16-year-old junior, with his handsplunged into the pockets of his jeans, walks by and says hi. "He's pretty cool,"the boy later says of Baranyk. "People like to be helpful to him. But this is abig place. Kids know he and the other security guys can't be everywhere."The main building at Oakton has two floors, and the boy says students know thatthe security personnel, whose office is on the first floor, spend far less oftheir time patrolling the hallways on the upper level. "Security worries aboutstudents trying to get off campus, but a lot of kids don't even try to get offcampus when they skip [classes]," he says. "Sometimes they just skip and hangout upstairs because they know security doesn't come up there as much."Upstairs is a tougher world, he says. "Sometimes kids get shoved around up thereby bigger kids, but that's just high school, right?"Even when an altercation is happening on the floor where Baranyk and hiscolleagues are patrolling, the boy says that security often doesn't see it. "Iftwo kids want to fight inside the school," he explains, "they go to the end of ahallway, as far away as they can get from security, and then their friends getin a circle around them. That way it's harder for security and teachers to seethem fighting. See, security wants to catch kids, but kids are looking around atwhat security does, too. They can be tricky, like security."The caginess also applies to the way students deal with one another, he says.The boy doesn't hear students talking about their own drug use at Oakton. Stiffpenalties for possession of drugs have had an impact. "You hear gossip aboutother people, but it's from guys talking about rumors of people in other groupsthey don't really know," he says. "You really only know what's happening in yourown group . . . Security knows a lot more about drugs than kids do. It's weird:Security finds out somehow. People probably talk to them. Mr. Baranyk knows howto get information."Baranyk is dogged about intelligence gathering. Using the Internet, he and RickMey have scanned Oakton students' MySpace.com sites, which, in some cases, offera window into their thoughts and activities.He will be able to point, within the next couple of weeks, to an incident inKansas, where sheriff's deputies, alerted by a MySpace.com posting, arrestedfive teenage boys allegedly plotting to shoot high school classmates on April20, the seventh anniversary of the Columbine murders. But Baranyk's principalinterest in MySpace.com and the rest of his investigative tools is far lesssensational: He is looking for any Oakton High lawbreaker or dangerousrisk-taker who needs to be rescued. "You want to help them, and you need to holdthem accountable," he says. "But you don't want to see their lives harmed bybeing caught, either."When his walkie-talkie squawks, he is off to look into a new bit of chicanery: Ateacher has reported that he saw a boy with a "teacher's textbook," which hasanswers to homework questions and possible examination topics. The book inquestion is not from this teacher's class. It is used by a government teacherwho, since told of the allegation, has met Baranyk in the hallway outside hisclassroom. "Would you like me to talk to the student?" Baranyk asks him."I'd appreciate that," the teacher replies."I'll wait for him out here," Baranyk says.The teacher steps back into the room and walks over to the boy, who looksstunned when asked to get up from his desk and speak to Baranyk."Am I in trouble for something?" the boy asks, in the hallway."I certainly hope not," Baranyk says casually, leading him toward the securityoffice.Once there, Baranyk conducts his interrogation at warp speed. "The witnesses inthis are teachers, and I have some leeway," Baranyk says, "but if you lie thatshuts the door on you. All right?"The boy nods.Baranyk moves his chair closer. "You have a teacher's government textbook,according to a witness. I gotta have that book back, and I gotta know how yougot it, or there's a possibility you don't graduate. If it's a theft and there'sany lying by you, you might be looking at a felony, too. Okay? How did you getthe book?""I got it from a friend," the kid answers. "I gave it back to him. He got itonline.""Who's your friend?"The boy supplies a name."I'm proud of you for being honest," Baranyk says to the kid. "It isn't fatalwhat you've done. I'm sure there'll be some repercussions with your teacher, butyou'll be all right with us."Within a few minutes, Baranyk is headed back toward the same class, ready topluck a second boy from his desk. He likes to spare administrators and teachersthe task of questioning students, in no small part because he has seen enough oftheir soft interrogations to know it is not one of their greatest strengths. Thesecond boy is not in the classroom now, having just moments before secured apass for himself from the unsuspecting teacher."What a knucklehead this kid is," Baranyk says, hurrying down a hallway. "I betwhen he saw me take [the first boy], he decided he needed to get out of there."Baranyk peers down hallways, pops into a boys' restroom. There, stepping awayfrom a toilet stall, is the boy, alone."I'm here because of this government book, this teacher's book, that you got,"Baranyk says."What?" the kid asks innocently.They are standing in the middle of the restroom. The boy is beginning to saysomething, but Baranyk cuts him off. "This isn't a time to BS me," Baranyk says.In a flash, his typically soft voice, the one so useful in extractinginformation from students during gentle interrogations, can give way to thetough cop voice from his past. "You understand me?" Baranyk goes on. "Look, ifwe leave this bathroom without the truth, you'll have to sit down with [anassistant principal]. You don't want to have to go through that. It will get badthen. You're here now, and maybe I can help, but this is your only chance. Ifyou BS me, that door is shut. Shut. You have to think about graduating, right?Right? So where did you get the book?"The boy's upper lip trembles. "I got it three days ago. Online.""Why did you do that?"The boy shrugs."Where is it now?""At home. I threw it in a trash can. I didn't want anybody else to find it.""If you're BS-ing, and I search your book bag and locker and it's in there, Ican't help you."The boy's chest heaves. "It's really in the trash."Baranyk looks the boy over."Lots of other kids have them," the boy adds. "They're getting them online,too."Baranyk sends the boy on his way. There will be no suspensions. Baranyk willpass the information about the compromised lesson plan on to the teacher, whowill flunk the two kids on some homework assignments and consider deductingpoints from their next exam.Late in the day, Baranyk walks by his office to hear an update: The assaultedboy's mother has called a vice principal to express her growing concern for him.To Baranyk, this update seems a portent of more trouble. He sighs."Knucklehead," he mumbles. At the other end of the hallway, smirking staffmembers are motioning for him."What's going on?" he asks."They've wrapped condoms around the water faucets again, Wally.""It only happens every few weeks or so, so we can live with it," Baranykwhispers. "Rumor is it's some kids' way of promoting safe sex. That's anexpensive hobby, if you ask me."One of the nice things about Oakton, he points out, is that weird humor is in noshort supply. "You know, when it comes to workplaces, I don't think anything canbeat a school," he observes. He looks at his watch: It is nearly 3 o'clock, theend of his workday. "Another thing about this job," he says, "the hours aregreat."ThursdayLate this morning, assistant principal Mark Penn asks Baranyk to join him in ahastily called meeting with the boy who said he was assaulted. When the teenagerarrives, he is twitchy, flicking at his earring."Have you had any more problems with anybody?" Penn asks."Not really, but I don't know why they [the two boys suspected of assaultinghim] don't just leave me alone," the boy says, staring at his feet.Penn glances at Baranyk and then back at the boy. "We received an e-mail fromyour mother. Something happened at your house."The boy looks up.Penn tells him that, according to his mother, somebody has vandalized the boy'scar. Penn scans the mother's e-mail: "What she's saying here is that there's asmashed car window."The boy howls an expletive.Penn goes on: "She's also saying that you rushed out of your house early thismorning . . ."The boy doesn't seem to have heard what Penn said. "That's my car, that's mycar." He screams the expletive again."Did you know about any of this with the car?" Penn asks."No," the boy moans."She's concerned that you might have left this morning without taking yourmedicine," Penn says.The boy cups his head in his hands. "My car, my car," he mumbles."She's concerned you didn't take your medicine."The boy is bipolar and regularly takes prescribed lithium. "No, I took it," hewhispers, calming, lifting his head. "Why did they do that to my car?""Your mom says that she hopes a counselor will talk to you so that you candecompress," Penn goes on. "Would it help you to be able to see your counselor?""No. Why did they do that to my car?"No one answers him. Penn and Baranyk are hoping he'll answer his own question.The boy takes a breath. "Don't worry, I'll handle it," he says.That makes Baranyk's head whip around."Don't confront anybody," Penn warns. "Don't make things worse."Baranyk slices in. "Why would someone smash your car window?"The boy answers slowly. One of the two boys suspected of assaulting him "waspissed at me for snitching that there was an assault. He was pissed because ifhe gets in any more trouble, maybe he'll have to go to a [juvenile detentionfacility]. It's like a warning: Don't snitch again. Don't snitch about anythingelse."Baranyk's eyes are rapidly blinking. "Snitch about what else?""Assaulting."This isn't what Baranyk is looking for. The conversation is over, at least fornow.Alone, Baranyk and Penn try to figure out the next move, if there is a nextmove."It's getting more serious," Penn says. "They're not going to stop coming afterhim, I don't think."In the afternoon, wearing a dark suit, Baranyk makes a short drive to a FairfaxCounty school district office, where separate disciplinary hearings will be heldfor two Oakton girls. The first, a senior, is charged with bringing a drug toschool  --  a painkiller prescribed to her  --  and giving it to anotherstudent. The other girl, an underclassman, is accused of possessing not only thepainkiller but a small quantity of marijuana found in a search of herbelongings. Weeks earlier, another student heard rumors that the senior with thepainkiller was offering the drug to another girl. The student shared the storywith an adult, who passed it along to the school. From the beginning of thecase, Baranyk and his team have worried about its impact on the senior, who,having turned 18, can no longer be treated as a juvenile by the justice system.On the day of the bust, having admitted to distributing a drug, the girl facedthe possibility of a felony charge. But Mey says he pointed out to a countyprosecutor that no money had exchanged hands, and the prosecutor decided not topursue a criminal case.Today, each of the hearings will last a little over an hour. The younger girl'ssession is first, and she emerges teary-eyed afterward. On the family's way out,the mother murmurs, "Thank you" to Baranyk. He recounts how the parentsexpressed gratitude that their daughter's marijuana use had been exposed. Thehearing officer's decision will not come for a week, at which time the youngergirl will be assigned to a new high school in the county. The senior who gaveher the painkiller will be barred from attending classes at Oakton but permittedto finish her course work at home and graduate on time. The incident will berecorded on each girl's permanent school record. But Oakton and county schoolofficials believe that the incident will not harm either girl's collegeadmission chances. They say colleges seldom request more than a student'sgrades."They get to move ahead," Baranyk says. "Their lives will be better because thetruth is out."FridayIn the morning, several members of the staff surprise Baranyk by wishing him ahappy 54th birthday. One woman drapes a lei around his neck. Others take turnsgiving him chaste hugs and kisses on the cheek. "Ladies, I never got anythinglike this in the police department," he says, grinning.Once away from them, he wonders aloud, "Well, what's gonna happen today?" Healways has a conflicted feeling about Friday at Oakton. On the one hand, aweekend break awaits; on the other, he can sense tension in the air, the nervesof some edgy students fraying after a week under the school grind.During his lunchtime patrol of the cafeteria, he looks for the kid who seldomeats, happy today to find that he is munching on a sandwich and sitting acrossfrom the disabled boy. "Hey, Mr. Baranyk," the first kid calls out. He says hehas some spring break news."I'm taking that trip," the boy says, grinning crookedly. "Driving to see myrelatives and some old friends.""Good for you," Baranyk says. "Nothing better than spring break, huh?""One more week," the boy says.In the cafeteria and elsewhere on campus, there are no altercations today, andtherefore, remarkably, no fights all week. For the first time in months atOakton, it will be a week without a student suspension. By all appearances,everything is tranquil.But even on a day as quiet as this Friday, the worried keep trickling in. Astricken-looking administrator stops Baranyk in the hallway to share a reportabout a girl who has been having "meltdowns" in her classes and, according towhispers, talking about suicide. Baranyk says he'll be sure to brief thecounselor.Next a German teacher rushes into the office and says that somebody in her classhas stolen one of her teacher textbooks with exam answers. Baranyk agrees totalk to her students. His voice, imperious and loud, will carry right throughthe door of the classroom."Look," he says to all of them. "The person who took that book can turn it in byMonday morning, with no questions asked. But, if that doesn't happen, I will seeto it that all 26 students in this class are interrogated, and I will get thatbook, and the student responsible will be dealt with. Understand me: One way oranother, I will get the book."By Monday morning, the book will be there.But for now, another week is over for Baranyk. As he gets ready to leave for theweekend, he runs into Mark Penn, each wondering whether the other has heard moreabout the stealth life of the supposedly assaulted boy. Baranyk shakes his head."Nothing's changed," Penn says. "It's all so unclear. He went missing fromanother class.""I don't know if he's any safer on a weekend," Baranyk says. "Maybe not."In the hallway, the men see the smiling principal, John Banbury, who says:"Well, this was a calm week, wasn't it? Did I hear right? No suspensions?"Penn nods. "We were just talking about it: no fights, no suspensions."Baranyk concurs. "A very calm week."Michael Leahy is a staff writer for the Magazine. He will be fielding questionsand comments about this article Monday at noon at washingtonpost.com/liveonline.