You can't just walk into Billy Martin's law firm, Martin & Gitner. You have tobe  buzzed  in. It's a K Street address after all, home to some of the mostwell-known and well-respected law firms in the country.Once inside the double glass doors and beyond the L-shaped reception desk withgranite countertops, you'll find Martin, 65, down the hall looking verycorporate in a gray suit and red tie.His eighth-floor office is cluttered: Binders, backpacks and books about SupremeCourt Justice Clarence Thomas and wrongful executions rest on the windowsill. Aputter, chipping cup and ball are propped in a corner. A book about the late TedStevens, the former Republican senator from Alaska, sits on anIndonesian-designed coffee table near a seen-better-days mauve love seat.His walls and desk are crammed with photos:   a smiling Martin and his wife, NPRjournalist Michel Martin, on their wedding day; the two  hiking on theirHawaiian honeymoon; and countless snapshots of their 11-year-old twins, Aminahand William Jr.There are other photos, including one of Supreme Court Justice ThurgoodMarshall. But most are, well, of Martin. Martin with former Washington Wizardsplayer Juwan Howard , whom he represented in a 1998 sexual assault case inMontgomery County. Martin questioning a witness at the Charlotte sentencing ofboxer Riddick Bowe, who had   kidnapped and stabbed his wife (Martin's mentor,the late Johnnie Cochran, is looking on). Martin a decade ago after being namedone of Washingtonian magazine's top D.C. lawyers."I'm usually in it every year," he says unapologetically. "I'm one of the mostrecognized lawyers in America, and I know that I'm one of the most recognizedAfrican American lawyers in the country."It sounds like unbridled arrogance, but Martin's client roster would make agentsdrool: bad boys of the NFL, NBA and NHL. Big-name actors and politicians. Martinis the go-to attorney when you're in trouble - real trouble.Facing-significant-prison-time trouble. He's the lawyer people hire to get  lesstime, when the evidence is stacked against them.According to those who have seen him in action, he's brilliant at trial,particularly with opening statements and connecting with a jury."When I was a clerk and went to the Public Defender's Services, I wanted to belike Billy," says Errol R. Arthur, now a D.C. Superior Court magistrate judge."As a young attorney, you think, 'Wow, if I could just get to that level.' "Attorney General Eric Holder describes him as "sophisticated" and a "goodtactician.""He's the kind of person to present the client with a factual, realisticdetermination of what the situation looks like, and that takes guts,particularly when they're paying you," says Holder, who has worked with Martinon several cases. "He can convince clients that the lawyer knows best."Martin is the modern-day Johnnie Cochran, minus the bling and the brashness, butwith swag intact.As he arrived at D.C. Superior Court one day last July, Martin patted two malecourthouse workers on their backs while en route to the downstairs lockup toconfer with his latest NFL client, Fred Davis, then 28. The former Redskinsplayer was in court to face charges of domestic violence after a girlfriend saidhe threw dirt and flowers at her during an argument at an Adams Morgan dinerthat summer.It was Davis's third run-in with authorities in four months. (The NFL suspendedhim last February for violating its substance-abuse policy, and the next day hewas charged with driving while intoxicated in Fairfax County. Those charges weredismissed at trial.)After a 20-minute private briefing with Davis, Martin went upstairs to Courtroom119 to wait for the case to be called."Lockup number 62," the clerk announced.Martin took his place as a shackled Davis emerged from a holding cell on theother side of the courtroom door. The charges were one count each of assault andattempted threats. The 6-foot-4-inch Davis let Martin do the talking; it's whathe gets paid $650 an hour to do."Not guilty," Martin said on behalf of his client during the eight-minutearraignment.The judge ordered Davis to stay away from his ex, Vergie Magbanua Arandid."I spoke to Mr. Davis; he has no problem staying away," Martin told the judge.Reporters rushed outside to get a sound bite from Martin, who paused to choosehis words carefully. Everything Martin does is measured and calculated."We're really disappointed these charges were filed," he told them. "Fred Davishas not been involved with assaulting or threatening this woman."After fielding questions, Martin thanked the journalists, then slipped back intothe courthouse to hustle Davis to an SUV waiting out of sight for the drive backto Davis's house in Leesburg, Va.The charges were later dropped after Martin asked prosecutors to "reevaluate"the case."He's a top-notch lawyer in demand," says Inez Smith Reid, a senior judge on theD.C. Court of Appeals. "He's expensive - very - but he's worth it."As FBI agents banged on the door of Prince George's County Executive Jack B.Johnson's Mitchellville, Md., home in November 2010, Johnson was on the phonewith his wife, Leslie, instructing her to tear up a $100,000 check he hadreceived from a developer and to hide nearly $80,000 in cash that he allegedlyreceived in bribes."Put it in your bra and walk out or something," Johnson told her, unaware thatfederal authorities were listening in.Within hours, the couple were arrested, he for masterminding a corruptionconspiracy that netted him as much as $1 million in bribes and implicated hiswife and several county officials and businessmen. The Johnsons were led -handcuffed - from their home.Facing up to 20 years in prison, Johnson turned to Martin, who rushed to thefederal courthouse in Greenbelt to meet with him after getting a call fromJohnson's son, Jack Jr."I like Jack," Martin says.The two met about 20 years ago when Johnson was the county's deputy state'sattorney. Martin and Johnson were both Howard University grads, avid golfers andhad mutual friends. They clicked.Martin stood by Johnson throughout the ordeal that ended with Johnson amblinginto the courthouse with a cane a few weeks after his arrest. Depression andParkinson's disease, he told the judge, who sentenced Johnson to 87 months. Healso fined him $100,000 and ordered him to undergo alcohol treatment and forfeit$78,000 and his antique Mercedes."It's very sad to see somebody I thought so much of fall so far," Martin says.Johnson is serving his time at Butner, a medium-security federal prison in NorthCarolina. Martin keeps in touch, though he says he doesn't like to becomeemotionally attached to his clients."His health is good and he's doing as well as could be expected for someoneconfined to federal prison," Martin says.NFL quarterback Michael Vick was looking at up to six years in prison foroperating a dogfighting ring near Smithfield, Va.   If the dogs didn't performwell, Vick and associates killed them. Vick hired Martin, pleaded guilty in 2007and received a 23-month sentence.Former Atlanta mayor William "Bill" Campbell  retained Martin after he wasindicted in 2004 on racketeering and bribery charges. Campbell was accused oftaking tens of thousands of dollars in payoffs in exchange for city contracts.A jury acquitted him of racketeering but found him guilty of tax fraud afterbooks surfaced showing that Campbell won $80,000 in weekly Friday-night pokergames between 1996 and 2000 but failed to report his booty. Campbell received a30-month prison sentence, far less than the nine years he could have gotten."That's the way it's done; you try and get your client the best deal," saysOliver McDaniel, who worked with Martin in the U.S. Attorney's Office in theDistrict. "He did his job and he did it well."Martin's clients also have included former U.S. senator  Larry Craig, the IdahoRepublican who pleaded guilty in 2007 to misdemeanor disorderly conduct after asex sting in a men's restroom at the Minneapolis-St. Paul International Airport.It was a plea Craig later regretted."He pled without counsel," Martin says.  Craig paid a $575 fine.Actor Wesley Snipes joined an organization that believed its members weren'tsubject to income tax, a move that led to his indictment on tax charges in 2006.He hired a team, including Martin, to defend him but abruptly fired thehigh-profile attorney just before trial, claiming he wasn't doing his job.Snipes was convicted."Maybe if he had kept me, he wouldn't have gone to prison for three years,"Martin says.William Robert Martin is the sixth of eight children - six girls and two boys.He grew up in Sewickley, Pa., a borough of 4,000 on the Ohio River 12 miles fromPittsburgh. The tony suburb has been home to actors and athletes, includingPittsburgh Penguins co-owner Mario Lemieux.About 90 percent of Sewickley's residents are white, and many of the blacks whosettled there worked for them. Martin's father, Felton, migrated from Augusta,Ga., and toiled in the steel mills. Martin's mother, Isabelle, was a Lynchburg,Va., native and second-generation "Sewickleyite" who stayed at home to raise herfamily, working occasionally as a caterer for the upper crust.Martin is quick to credit his dad with instilling in him a sense of hard workand punctuality. "My dad worked in that steel mill for close to 40 years, and Idon't know that he ever missed a day and was never late," he recalls.He inherited his spirituality, as well as a love of gardening and fresh flowers,from his mother.The Martins considered themselves middle class, living comfortably in afour-bedroom, three-story frame house in an integrated neighborhood, with anItalian family on one side and an African American family on the other. ButMartin wanted more."I did not want to be a steelworker," he says. "I was determined to get out, andgrowing up in Sewickley showed me what the American dream could be."He got a work permit at 12 and began caddying at a country club. On a good dayhe took home $100 in tips, a tidy sum 50 years ago.He attended Quaker Valley High School, repeatedly ranked as one of the bestschools in the country. He lettered in football, baseball, basketball and track.He played point guard, claiming that "even at 5-10, I was the only one who coulddunk."He also was the quarterback - briefly. "In 1965 in a small town, they weren'tready for a black quarterback," Martin says. "I was told I was not going toplay."He saved his money and enrolled at Howard University, returning home duringsemester breaks to work in the mills to pay his tuition. He was the only one ofthe eight siblings to graduate from college, though the others had respectedcareers: a bank teller, correctional officer, deputy warden, chef, flightattendant, postal worker and homemaker.During his junior year, Martin married a girl from back home, Toni, anaccounting major. A year later, their first child, Nikki, was born. Aftergraduation, the family moved when Martin landed a scholarship to attend lawschool at the University of Cincinnati. He decided on law school after realizingthat he was good at arguing and making his case.His career began as a prosecutor with the city, where he enjoyed trials so muchthat if he finished one early, he'd go from courtroom to courtroom persuadingother prosecutors to let him try the cases they didn't want.By the end of his first year, Martin had tried more than 50 cases, four timesthe average of his colleagues, he says proudly."I had such a thirst for trials," he says. "I'm very comfortable in thecourtroom now."After a three-year stint in Cincinnati (where second daughter Erica was born),Martin joined the U.S. Attorney's Office in Dayton. Officials tapped him tooversee the office two years later. He was 29. Ambitious and eager, Martin sayshe became the Justice Department's "rising star," and soon had his pick ofassignments. He chose the Organized Crime Strike Force unit in San Francisco. Itwas 1980.Four years later, Martin's father was diagnosed with terminal cancer and given18 months to live. Martin requested a transfer back to Washington to be closerto him."I went home every Friday and came back on Sunday," Martin says.His father died in 1986, exactly 18 months after his diagnosis. He was 72.Six years later, during a visit to his ailing mother in a Pennsylvania hospital,she told him that she was tired and ready to go home. Isabelle was a spiritualwoman who had raised her children in the Baptist church. Martin assured her thatshe was being released the next day. He hugged her and returned to Washington.By the time his plane landed, she had died. She was 72."I was saddened, but I realized she was excited to go home," he says.Martin left the Justice Department in 1991 as the No. 3 person in the U.S.Attorney's Office in the District, where he "was involved in every majorcriminal investigation," including assembling the team that tried then-MayorMarion Barry Jr. (D) on crack cocaine charges. Barry never forgave him, he says.Martin and Toni divorced shortly after he retired from the government and wentinto private practice. They remain friends.In August 1995, during a layover in New York after arriving from Paris via theConcorde, Martin called his old pal from DOJ, Judy Smith, the muse for thetelevision show "Scandal," and invited her to dinner. Michel McQueen, aBrooklyn-bred girl who attended boarding school in New Hampshire and RadcliffeCollege at Harvard University, and was working for ABC News, also was in NewYork on a layover. She had just returned from a hike in Mexico. She asked herfriend Smith to dinner, too."Whether intentionally or accidentally, she said yes to both of us," recallsMichel, who at one point reported for The Washington Post.The three met at the Shark Bar restaurant on the Upper West Side. Martin andMichel exchanged pleasantries, but nothing came of the encounter. The pair metagain seven months later at the Radio and Television Correspondents' AssociationDinner in Washington, where Michel received an award. As Martin congratulatedher, he noticed her struggling to hold the weighty crystal prize."He took my shawl and bag and walked around with me so I could show off myaward," she says.Martin gave her a lift home, and Michel decided to throw a dinner party to fixhim up with a friend. It didn't work."It was kind of like magnets repelling each other," she says.Martin and Michel "hung out" for the next couple of months, and Michel realized"I like him." Their friendship blossomed.On Christmas Eve in 1999, as Michel cleaned up after a family dinner, Martinshowed her two Pittsburgh Steelers ornaments and asked her to pick one."Wrong one," he joked.Martin dropped to one knee and presented her with the other ornament, which hada custom-made diamond ring attached."I cried," Michel recalls.They married on June 4, 2000.The Martins became a power couple - she a journalist for ABC's "Nightline," hetaking on powerful clients. Their circle of friends include philanthropistsWayne and Catherine Reynolds, former Army secretary Clifford L. Alexander Jr.and his wife, Adele, and Richard Roberts, chief judge of the U.S. District Courtfor the District of Columbia.Martin has a softer side - another trait he got from his mother - that's usuallyreserved for family.When Erica's junior high team won a basketball championship one year, the schooldidn't have money for trophies. One day, a box of trophies showed up. Yearspassed before Erica, now 37, learned it was her father who donated them.He'd rise at 6 a.m. every weekday, work out in his home gym, then twice a weekdrop the twins at school. When the kids attended Lowell, the $30,000-a-yearprivate school, he'd walk them from their 4,100-square-foot home in NorthwestWashington."I would see him every morning," says neighbor Denise Gibson Bailey. "He'd holdtheir hands. It was very sweet."Afterward, he'd start returning some of the 100 or so e-mails he gets dailybefore arriving at the office by 9. He was a loyal Metro rider until a homelessman "thought it was his mission" to announce that Martin was on the train."Does everybody know who this man is?" Martin says, imitating thewell-intentioned homeless man. "He's one of the best lawyers in D.C.""Everyone turned and looked at me," he recalls. "I thought, 'I need moreprivacy.' "Ask Martin about his favorite client and he doesn't hesitate: Jayson Williams,the former NBA power forward."Jayson really has a good heart," he says. "He's very thoughtful of others.People might find that hard to believe considering he was involved in ahomicide."Williams was charged in 2002 with the Valentine's Day shooting of a limousinedriver, whom Williams had hired to drive his friends from an event inPennsylvania to Williams's estate in New Jersey. At the mansion, Williams washandling a shotgun when it went off, hitting the driver. Williams pleaded guiltyto aggravated assault and received a five-year sentence. He served 18 months."It really was an accident," Martin says.His favorite case? Representing Monica Lewinsky's mother, Marcia Lewis Straus ,in 1998. And yes, he saw the blue dress."How many times in a lifetime are you involved with a key witness in a case thatinvolves the impeachment of the president of the United States?" Martin asks.Straus needed an attorney because independent counsel Kenneth W. Starr'sprosecutors had subpoenaed her to testify against her daughter before theWhitewater grand jury looking into Lewinsky's alleged sexual relationship withPresident Bill Clinton. She hired Martin after walking into his office."The first thing I saw when I sat down was a painting - a portrait of MartinLuther King," Straus remembers. "I was a student in the late '60s, and this wasa profoundly iconic image to me. And I knew I was in good hands."Straus says Martin has a "brilliant legal mind" but says it's his "extraordinarykindness and compassion for his clients" that sets him apart. "Billy didn't justcare about the law, he also cared about how his clients were affected by thelaw," she adds.Straus recalls how Martin offered to drive to Pittsburgh to meet with her son,Michael, who was away at college and was unable to talk to his mother or sisterfor fear of being subpoenaed."Michael ... has told me since that day how much that meant to him," she says."I will never forget that."Martin fought to keep Straus from testifying, but failed."It was a shock to both of us when I was ultimately forced to testify," shesays. "After I broke down on the second day, he eloquently defended me outsideon the courthouse steps."After Washington intern Chandra Levy , who had been romantically linked to Rep.Gary A. Condit (D-Calif.), went missing in 2001, her parents needed an EastCoast lawyer. A family friend recommended Martin."If we didn't have him, we couldn't get through what we did," says Levy's mom,Susan. Chandra Levy was found murdered a year later in Rock Creek Park.At his age, when many lawyers are cutting back or giving up their practice,Martin seems to thrive on the long hours. He recently wrapped up a two-yearstint as president of the Washington Bar Association. At a black-tie gala lastspring, Martin worked the room like a young politician campaigning for office.He greeted a prosecutor with a slap on the back, hugged old friends he hadn'tseen in a while and gladly posed for pictures with anyone who asked."I'll know when it's time," Martin says about retirement. "But I'm not thereyet."Martin pulls his Cadillac into the garage, having just picked up Aminah fromgymnastics. As she scurries upstairs to her room, Martin throws a log on thefire in the family room, decorated with mementos from his wedding. In one corneris the broom that he and Michel jumped - an African custom that represents a newbeginning. The pillow carried by their ring bearer is nearby. On a wall is theirframed wedding invitation.Within minutes, Martin's house is filled with family: Michel enters with theirson; Martin's two eldest daughters come in with their four young children intow. Their husbands aren't far behind.Chaos.Martin doesn't mind. He plays with his youngest grandson, Max, an energetic18-month-old, tossing him around. It's unclear who's having more fun.Michel interrupts. Time to draw for the Secret Santa exchange, she announces.She retrieves a chocolate brown derby, tosses in pieces of paper and passes itaround for the adults to pull names. Erica and Nikki draw. The sons-in-law draw.Finally, it's Martin's turn. He pulls his own name and laughs.Cheryl W. Thompson is an associate professor of journalism at George WashingtonUniversity, and an investigative reporter for The Washington Post. Postresearcher Alice Crites contributed to this story. To comment on this story,e-mail wpmagazine@washpost.com or visit washingtonpost.com/magazine.