As undercover assignments go, posing as a teenage girl online to catchpedophiles has its share of challenges for the typical FBI agent.Should he ever capitalize words in instant messages?Is it okay to say you buy your clothes at 5-7-9?And what about Justin Timberlake? Is he still hot or is he so two years ago?For those investigative details, the FBI calls on Karen, Mary and Kristin --Howard County eighth-graders and best friends.During the past year, the three have been teaching agents across the country howto communicate just like teenage girls, complete with written quizzes oncelebrity gossip and clothing trends and assigned reading in Teen People and YMmagazines. The first time the girls gave a quiz, all the agents failed."They, like, don't know anything," said Mary, 14, giggling."They're, like, do you like Michael Jackson?" said Karen, 14, rolling her eyesat just how out of it adults can be.Probably the youngest instructors ever in an FBI classroom, the girls havebecome an invaluable help to Operation Innocent Images -- an initiative thattries to stop people from peddling child pornography or otherwise sexuallyexploiting children, FBI officials said. The Washington Post agreed to withholdthe girls' last names to protect them from harassment on the Internet andelsewhere.Yesterday, at their middle school graduation ceremony, the girls each received asilver-framed letter of commendation signed by FBI Director Robert S. MuellerIII. In the letter, Mueller thanked them for developing the lessons that havedirectly helped catch pedophiles, despite their "busy 8th grade schedule."Operation Innocent Images was launched by the Baltimore FBI field office in1995, and agents looked into 113 suspects in the first year. Over the years,Internet pedophiles have become savvier and more suspicious about whether theyare chatting with a law enforcement agent or a real teenager. Many of thesuspects question the chatters on trends and pop culture, trying to catch theFBI agents off guard.Karen, Mary and Kristin -- honor roll students, PacSun shoppers and aficionadosof pink toenail polish -- have kept the FBI a step ahead, said Gary M. Bald,special agent in charge of the Baltimore office.The girls were recruited after one of their fathers, an agent involved in thepedophile investigations, watched her instant messaging a friend and couldn'tunderstand what she was typing. He realized that FBI training wasn't enough."We can teach agents how to be careful and make sure they're following the lawand how to arrest people," Bald said. "But how to convince people they're a13-year-old is something we need help on."Agents estimate that at any given time, 20,000 pedophiles are online worldwide,trolling chat rooms after school hours for vulnerable teenagers. About two dozenagents and analysts handle such cases in the Baltimore and Washington region,working from computer cubicles in a Calverton office building. The program hasled to the convictions of about 2,200 people across the country for swappingchild pornography or arranging to meet minors for sex.Around the FBI offices, Karen, Mary and Kristin have become like the agents'adopted daughters, getting hugs and high-fives from their students. Butnaturally, the adults often think they know best.One agent kept insisting that he was right when he answered on a quiz thatJustin Timberlake was more popular than Destiny's Child. Another was miffed whenthe girls told the class that Led Zeppelin was just not cool. Some keptwondering why "l2m" in instant messaging couldn't be "love to meet," instead of"listen to music."And the younger female FBI agents assumed that teenage girls would think actorGeorge Clooney is cute."We're, like, no," said Mary, making a face."He's, like, 50," Karen exclaimed.In a couple of years, the girls will be too old to teach the classes and the FBImay find other teenagers to take their place. But the girls say they areinterested in continuing in law enforcement. Karen wants to be a forensicinvestigator. Mary thinks being a lawyer would be fun, "to put the bad guys injail." And Kristin, 13, the quiet one, says she'll write about their exploits.Most of their classmates did not know about their FBI work until yesterday, whenBald commended them on their achievements. Thanks to the girls, Bald said, theFBI has gathered such valuable information as: never begin a chat with "hello";never use proper grammar in instant messages; and "pos" stands for "parent overshoulder."After the ceremony, several parents talked excitedly about finally finding outwhat "pos" meant.Karen shot Mary a worried look: "Our classmates are going to kill us."Supervisory Special Agent Stacey Bradley of the FBI will answer questions aboutlaw enforcement efforts to combat Internet child pornography and exploitationand how to protect children who go online at 3 p.m. today at www.washingtonpost.com/liveonline.