Have you heard? It's not rape anymore. The newer, more palatable term atcolleges across the country is "non-consensual sex." And it's become part of theweaseling, whitewashing way we deal with sexual assault, sexual harassment andrape.The "non-consensual sex" rebranding is courtesy of Brett Sokolow, a lawyer whohas been advising colleges and universities about dealing with rape on theircampuses for the past 15 years. He told Al Jazeera America that collegeadministrations don't want to say the word "rape" and don't want to believetheir students could be rapists. But once he changed the term to "non-consensualsex," the conversations were much easier. Focus groups loved it. Rape lite.About one in five women and one of every 71 men have been raped, according to asurvey done by the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. One in every 20men and women said they've been sexually assaulted in some way other than rape.So when are we going to take this huge issue seriously and hold predatorsaccountable? Terms such as "non-consensual sex" make it too easy to minimize thescope of the problem. And not just on college campuses.Last week, we saw the fall of the mightiest of the Blue Angels, that elitesquadron of acrobatic Navy pilots. Capt. Gregory McWherter, a two-time commanderof the beloved unit, was relieved of duty for allegedly creating a non-angelicatmosphere of sexual harassment, hazing and porn.This is the same guy who was also the president of the Tailhook Association.Yes, THAT Tailhook. The group that had a primal bacchanal in a Las Vegas hotelin 1991, where drunk pilots loudly and publicly sexually assaulted more than 80women.McWherter had just graduated from The Citadel when that scandal blew up. But theNavy's own investigation showed McWherter hadn't learned much from it. The Navytried to keep his reassignment hush hush, refusing to give details about itsinvestigation and the reason for McWherter's swift reassignment.It's all about image instead of about accountability. I'm surprised they didn'tcall his booting a "non-consensual reassignment."We like to think that a lot the rape culture has to do with alcohol. And true,many rapes are dripping with 80-proof impulses and bad decisions. But even ondry campuses, there are attacks.The scariest part of America's sexual misconduct culture? The decisions that aremade in the cold, sober light of day.Remember those Secret Service guys hiring prostitutes in Cartegena? The reporton that was cleaned up quite a bit because the Department of Homeland Security'sinspector general, Charles K. Edwards, was buddy-buddy with the guys who askedhim to leave some of the more sordid details out, according to a report issuedlast week by a Senate oversight panel. Wouldn't want our pals being pilloried,right?It's the women who wind up suffering when men try to protect each other. Takethe case of Denise Rucker Krepp, a former Coast Guard officer and lawyer who wasthe first female general counsel at the U.S. Maritime Administration.Soon after she took that job, she was horrified by a recent survey at theMerchant Marine Academy - it's the equivalent of Annapolis or West Point, butfor the Merchant Marine - that showed a huge number of sexual assaults wereoccurring at the New York campus.One part of the survey had 21 students who reported being harassed,collectively, a total of 358 times. Seven said they were sexually assaulted.Krepp asked the inspector general of the Transportation Department for aninvestigation. It didn't happen. And she said she was asked to resign for hercontinued whistleblowing on the matter. She showed me the e-mails she got frombosses asking her for her resignation. And she spoke openly, testifying beforefederal panels, about the stonewalling and resignation.Thanks to a request by two members of Congress whom Krepp had talked to aftershe moved on to another job, an audit was launched last July, two years aftershe first flagged the rape culture of the academy. The results are expected nextmonth."What does this say about doing the right thing?" Krepp said. "Do they reallythink rape victims are going to come forward when they see this?"Here's the part that makes me really despondent. There are the sexual assaultscandals that involve the old-school guys, the ones who entered the militarybefore women were their peers. We hate what they did - but somehow it felt asthough that were part of another era, and it would eventually go away.Then last week, someone at American University leaked a bunch of texts ande-mails that are allegedly between some of the cavemen, I mean brothers, at asecret, not-really-a-fraternity Epsilon Iota, which was kicked off campus 13years ago for bad behavior.I can't even quote them, they're so bad. But they joke a lot about raping andassaulting. The primary term for women rhymes with "witches." They're homophobicand racist enough to make Donald Sterling look reasonable. And the potty-textingyoung men are supposedly interns with Senate offices and various NGO's aroundtown.The future looks grim if guys in their 20s are behaving like this.Last month, Sen. Kirsten Gillibrand (D-N.Y.) pushed for legislation to removesex-crime investigations, prosecutions and punishment from the chain of commandin the military to make it easier to hold predators in the ranks accountable. Itfailed, but changes may be coming to campuses soon. And not just in terminology.American University is investigating the bad frat case. And hundreds of studentssigned a petition to expel the secret frat boys.On Tuesday, the White House is going to release recommendations from a taskforce formed to combat sexual assault on campus. Accountability is about tobecome a lot more non-consensual. And that's long overdue.petula.dvorak@washpost.comTwitter: @petuladï...OE To read previous columns, go to washingtonpost.com/dvorak.