Joe Paterno sat in a wheelchair at the family kitchen table where he has eaten,prayed and argued for more than a halfcentury. All around him family memberswere shouting at each other, yet he was whispering. His voice sounded like windblowing across a field of winter stalks, rattling the husks. Lung cancer hasrobbed him of the breath to say all that he wants to about the scandal he stillstruggles to comprehend, and which ended his career as head football coach atPenn State University. The words come like gusts. "I wanted to build up, notbreak down," he said.Crowded around the table were his three voluble sons, Scott, Jay, David,daughter Mary Kay, and his wife of 50 years, Sue, all chattering at once. In themiddle of the table a Lazy Susan loaded with trays of cornbread and mashedpotatoes spun by, swirling fast as the arguments. "If you go hungry, it's yourown fault," Paterno likes to say. But Paterno, 85, could not eat. He sippedPepsi over crushed ice from a cup. Once, it would have been bourbon. His handshowed a tremor, and a wig replaced his once-fine head of black hair.Paterno's hope is that time will be his ally when it comes to judging what hebuilt, versus what broke down. "I'm not 31 years old trying to prove somethingto anybody," he said. "I know where I am." This is where he is: wracked byradiation and chemotherapy, in a wheelchair with a broken pelvis, and "shockedand saddened" as he struggles to explain a breakdown of devastating proportions.Jerry Sandusky, his former assistant coach at Penn State from 1969 to 1999, ischarged with more than 50 counts of sexually abusing young boys over a 15-yearperiod. He maintains his innocence. If Sandusky is guilty, "I'm sick about it,"Paterno said.How Sandusky, 67, allegedly evaded detection by state child services, universityadministrators, teachers, parents, donors and Paterno himself remains an openquestion. "I wish I knew," Paterno said. "I don't know the answer to that. It'shard." Almost as difficult for Paterno to answer is the question of why, afterreceiving a report in 2002 that Sandusky had abused a boy in the shower of PennState's Lasch Football Building, and forwarding it to his superiors, he didn'tfollow up more aggressively."I didn't know exactly how to handle it and I was afraid to do something thatmight jeopardize what the university procedure was," he said. "So I backed awayand turned it over to some other people, people I thought would have a littlemore expertise than I did. It didn't work out that way."Former athletic director Tim Curley and school vice president Gary Schultz facecharges of perjury and failing to report suspected child abuse, based on theirinaction. They have pleaded not guilty. Though he is not charged with a crime,Penn State president Graham Spanier was fired on Nov. 9, along with Paterno.Paterno is accused of no wrongdoing, and in fact authorities have said hefulfilled his legal obligations by reporting to his superiors. Nevertheless, theuniversity Board of Trustees summarily dismissed him with a late-night phonecall four days after Sandusky's arrest. At about 10 p.m., Paterno and Sue weregetting ready for bed when the doorbell rang. An assistant athletic director wasat the door, and wordlessly handed Sue a slip of paper. There was nothing on itbut the name of the vice chairman of trustees, John Surma, with a phone number.They stood frozen by the bedside in their nightclothes, Sue in a robe andPaterno in pajamas and a Penn State sweatshirt. Paterno dialed the number.Surma told Paterno, "In the best interests of the university, you areterminated." Paterno hung up and repeated the words to his wife. She grabbed thephone and redialed."After 61 years he deserved better," she snapped. "He deserved better."The firing provoked a riot on campus that night.To Penn State students, Paterno was less a person than a beloved monument. Hehad arrived at a "cow college" in 1950 as an assistant coach armed with aflathead haircut, a Brooklyn accent and a degree from Brown. As the head coachfrom 1966 on, he struck an austerely iconic pose, managing to be both fierce andbookish, with his black cleats and his thick black-framed glasses. To hisrivals, he was a holier-than-thou prig who intimated he was more principled thanthey were.Under his leadership Penn State football became a kind of gross national productas he won more games than any other coach in history, yet regularly posted highgraduation rates - his team was ranked No.1 academically out of the top 25football teams in 2009 and 2011 by the New America Foundation's Academic BowlChampionship Series. The "cow college" grew into a public research universitywith $4.6 billion in revenue and buildings as large as airplane hangars. BeaverStadium was renovated and enlarged six times during his tenure.But after 61 years on the campus, Paterno cleared out his office in the space ofone day. It was an end he was unprepared for. Yet it came with the realizationthat as the face of the university, people assign him greater responsibilitythan other officials."Whether it's fair I don't know, but they do it," he said. "You would think Iran the show here."Over two separate conversations on Thursday and Friday, Paterno discussed hiscareer and his actions relating to Sandusky. His attorney Wick Sollers of theWashington law firm King & Spalding, and a communications adviser, Dan McGinn ofTMG Strategies, monitored the conversations, in part to be sure Paterno waslucid, since he has experienced fogginess from his chemo treatments, one ofwhich he underwent the day before the first interview.Since the scandal broke, Paterno has been largely silent while dealing with hishealth issues, despite scathing criticism that included accusations that heprotected Sandusky and wielded more power in the cloistered community known asHappy Valley than the university president.Paterno was initially reluctant to speak because "I wanted everybody to settledown," he said. But he is so eager to defend his record that he insisted oncontinuing the interview from his bedside Friday morning, though ill. He washospitalized for observation later in the day due to complications from thechemo but, according to the family, had improved by Saturday morning.Mostly he sat in his wheelchair covered by a blanket, surrounded by pictures ofhis children and grandchildren, in the modest stone-and-plate-glass home hebought for $9,000 in 1966. The home, and the fact that his address and phone arestill listed in the State College phone book, have oft been cited as evidence ofhis regular-Joe values. A good deal of what he earned has gone back to theuniversity, in the form of donations to a library that bears his name and acampus spiritual center."My father said about money: 'You have to have some. But you don't have to haveall of it. Just be honest with yourself.' "He displays only a few mementos of his football career, jumbled in a glass casein a dark corner of his old study, a small, woody space. Most of the items inthe case are personal souvenirs. Tucked in one corner is a card that says, "Thismarriage is interrupted for football season." There are game balls, the mostprominent one from Oct. 29, 2011, when the Nittany Lions defeated Illinois,10-7, to make Paterno the winningest coach in the annals of major collegefootball, with 409 victories.Sandusky was arrested just a week later.What Penn State officials knew about Sandusky and when is the subject of nofewer than five formal investigations. They range from state Attorney GeneralLinda Kelly's criminal investigation of Sandusky, to an NCAA inquiry, to PennState's in-house inquiry led by former FBI director Louis J. Freeh. Thebest-case scenario is that the institutional leaders were guilty of blindness,and an unfeeling self-absorption. The worst case is a criminal cover-up toprotect a wealthy university's reputation.This is Paterno's own account:On a Saturday morning in 2002, an upset young assistant coach named MikeMcQueary knocked on Paterno's door to tell him he had witnessed a shocking scenein the Penn State football building showers. Until that moment, Paterno said, hehad "no inkling" that Sandusky might be a sexual deviant. By then Sandusky was aformer employee, with whom Paterno had little to do. Although Sandusky had beenhis close coaching associate and helped fashion Penn State defenses for threedecades, their relationship was "professional, not social," as Paterno describedit. "He was a lot younger than me." Sandusky had been out of the program forthree years, and in fact, Paterno said he cannot recall the last time he hadseen or spoken to Sandusky. "I can't," he said.Sandusky retired in 1999, shortly after Penn State made the Alamo Bowl. Thetiming was curious. Paterno's understanding was that Sandusky took earlyretirement on his recommendation after Paterno told him frankly that he wouldnot become his successor. The state was offering 30-year employees a handsomebuyout, and Paterno believed Sandusky should take it. Paterno was frustratedthat Sandusky spent so much time working on his youth foundation, The SecondMile, that he was not available to help in recruiting and other coaching duties.Authorities now say Sandusky used Second Mile to meet and groom his allegedvictims."He came to see me and we talked a little about his career," Paterno said. "Isaid, you know, Jerry, you want to be head coach, you can't do as much as you'redoing with the other operation. I said this job takes so much detail, and foryou to think you can go off and get involved in fundraising and a lot of thingslike that. . . . I said you can't do both, that's basically what I told him."Paterno insists he was completely unaware of a 1998 police investigation into areport from a Second Mile mother that Sandusky had inappropriately touched herson in a shower. The inquiry ended when the local prosecutor declined to bringcharges. "You know it wasn't like it was something everybody in the buildingknew about," Paterno said. "Nobody knew about it."Paterno contends that ignorance was the context with which he heard McQueary'sdisturbing story in 2002. McQueary, sitting at Paterno's kitchen table, told himthat he had been at the football building late the evening before when he heardnoises coming from the shower."He was very upset and I said why, and he was very reluctant to get into it,"Paterno said. "He told me what he saw, and I said, what? He said it, well,looked like inappropriate, or fondling, I'm not quite sure exactly how he putit. I said you did what you had to do. It's my job now to figure out what wewant to do. So I sat around. It was a Saturday. Waited till Sunday because Iwanted to make sure I knew what I was doing. And then I called my superiors andI said: 'Hey, we got a problem, I think. Would you guys look into it?' Cause Ididn't know, you know. We never had, until that point, 58 years I think, I hadnever had to deal with something like that. And I didn't feel adequate."At that point, Paterno set up a meeting for McQueary and Curley, the athleticdirector, and  Schultz, who oversaw university police. McQueary has testifiedthat he gave both men a far more graphic description of what he witnessed, whichhe believed to be Sandusky sodomizing a boy of about 10, who had his handsagainst the shower wall. At the preliminary hearing for Curley and Schultz onDec. 16, McQueary said he had been reluctant to go into similar "great detailabout sexual acts" with Paterno, out of respect for the coach, who was 75 at thetime.Schultz and Curley have maintained that McQueary failed to impart theseriousness of what he saw to them as well. They never told police about theallegation, instead informing Sandusky he could no longer bring children touniversity facilities. Prosecutors say Sandusky continued to abuse boys for sixmore years.Paterno has said, "In hindsight, I wish I had done more."Paterno's portrait of himself is of an old-world man profoundly confused by whatMcQueary told him, and who was hesitant to make follow-up calls because he didnot want to be seen as trying to exert any influence for or against Sandusky. "Ididn't know which way to go," he said. "And rather than get in there and make amistake . . ."He reiterated that McQueary was unclear with him about the nature of what he saw- and added that even if McQueary had been more graphic, he's not sure he wouldhave comprehended it."You know, he didn't want to get specific," Paterno said. "And to be frank withyou I don't know that it would have done any good, because I never heard of, of,rape and a man. So I just did what I thought was best. I talked to people that Ithought would be, if there was a problem, that would be following up on it."Paterno declined to judge Sandusky, or his other Penn State colleagues. "I thinkwe got to wait and see what happens," he said. "The courts are taking care ofit, the legal system is taking care of it."According to Sollers, the attorney, Paterno has no legal exposure in theSandusky case. Paterno has cooperated fully with the investigation, and has "meton multiple occasions voluntarily" with representatives from the attorneygeneral's office, Sollers said. "In my judgment Coach Paterno has no legalliability in this matter. In fact, he acted completely appropriately inreporting the only allegation he received to his superiors and had everyexpectation that the allegation would be investigated thoroughly."Paterno has felt smaller repercussions.His son Scott says Paterno has been "shunned" by many in the university, thoughhe did hear    from current Penn State President Rodney Erickson last week whenhe made a $100,000 donation to the school. His name has been removed fromtrophies. The Maxwell Football Club of Philadelphia has discontinued its JosephV. Paterno Award, which was to be given to coaches who made a positive impact. Anomination for the Presidential Medal of Freedom was withdrawn.But Joe Paterno is not the victim here, he reminds you."You know, I'm not as concerned about me," he said. "What's happened to me hasbeen great. I got five great kids. Seventeen great grandchildren. I've had awonderful experience here at Penn State. I don't want to walk away from thisthing bitter. I want to be helpful."The Paternos say they think about the real potential victims  every time theylook at their own children. "I got three boys and two girls," Paterno said."It's sickening." His knee-jerk response is to go back to Flatbush. "Violence isnot the way to handle it," he said. "But for me, I'd get a bunch of guys and saylet's go punch somebody in the nose." Sue Paterno is more blunt. "If someonetouched my child, there wouldn't be a trial, I would have killed them," shesaid. "That would be my attitude, because you have destroyed someone for life."She sighed. "It's a bad scene for this happy valley."The Sandusky investigation has torn apart a cloistered town-and-gown communitywhere everyone knows everyone - including Sandusky. Old friends cannot talk toeach other because criminal trials are imminent. Recently Sue went to thefuneral of Tim Curley's mother. The Paternos have known John Surma for years -Paterno recruited his brother. Underneath the tension is the complicatedknowledge that if Sandusky is guilty, he was as good at seducing the adults ashe was the children.If nothing else, the Paternos say, perhaps the Sandusky case will raiseconsciousness in other communities the way it has been raised in theirs. "We aregoing to become a more aware society," Sue said. "Maybe we will look for clues."She wonders what signs she missed all those years, when they felt so successfuland sure of themselves."I had no clue," she said. "I thought doctors looked for child abuse in ahospital, in a bruise or something."It remains to be seen, barring any new revelations, whether there will be areappraisal of Paterno's life and record at Penn State. Eventually, his familyhopes, there will be healing and forgiveness in the community, and the outlinesof the man they insist Paterno is, and not the monument or monumental target,will reemerge: A modest, decent, fundamentally devoted coach who always lovedbooks more than money.His starting salary was just $20,000. In 1972 the New England Patriots offeredhim $1.3 million to become coach and general manager. But at 5:30 a.m. on theday he intended fly to Boston to accept, Paterno woke up and realized it wasmistake. He said to his wife: "You went to bed with a millionaire but you wokeup with me. I'm not going." He stayed at Penn State, though he was making just$35,000. In 2008 his salary of $1.03 million was still fractional compared topeers, some of whom now make $4 million.Paterno's record is not perfect. Anyone who won on his scale has an ungenerouscompetitive streak and nascent ego. His love for higher learning - he likes toname-drop Puccini and Virgil - could tip over into superiority. He could show atemper, as he did in 1995 when a camera caught him delivering a profane on-fieldtirade.His football program was not immune to the problems of big-time collegeathletics. An ESPN inquiry found that from 2002 to 2007, 46 Penn State footballplayers faced criminal charges. But he liked working with problem cases andturning them around. "Hotshots," he still calls them today. The 2007 team had 19players who earned Academic all-Big Ten honors. "The bigger the problem the guywas, the more I enjoyed it when we had success," he said.Over the course of his career, 47 of his players made Academic all-American, thethird-highest total among institutions playing at the championship level.He loved his work. "They were all days I looked forward to," he said. Hisphilosophy was simple. "My thing was play as hard as you can, don't be stupid,pay attention to details, and have enough guts in the clutch that you're notafraid to make a play," he said. "Some things I thought were important for ayoung man to know."Early on, Paterno vowed that he would try to never lose perspective. In 1968 hesaid: "We're trying to win football games, don't misunderstand that. But I don'twant it to ruin our lives if we lose. I don't want us ever to become the kind ofplace where an 8-2 season is a tragedy."Asked if he succeeded in keeping the vow, he said: "I stayed on the track Iwanted to stay on. I don't think I deviated from what I'm all about and what Ithought was important. Whether you want to call that a legacy, or whatever youwant to call it."These are the things Paterno would prefer to reminisce about. Instead, he istying up the loose ends of the abrupt end to his career. There are mounds ofmail to deal with, 12,000 letters (his grandchildren counted them). Former PennState running back Franco Harris, the Pittsburgh Steelers Hall of Famer, checksin regularly and is leading a furious campaign to depose the Board of Trusteesfor their handling of the scandal and Paterno's dismissal. Paterno tries to playpeacemaker, although he admits his first reaction was, "Raise hell." There arestill details to work out with the school, because he remains a tenuredprofessor. On Jan. 2 the university sent him a retirement letter."Right now I'm trying to figure out what I'm gonna do," he said. "Cause I don'twant to sit around on my backside all day." He grins and there is a light behindhis glasses. "If I'm gonna do that I'll be a newspaper reporter."Nevertheless, sitting is mostly what he does, surrounded by the photographs thathave accrued on the walls for almost a half-century. They provoke memories. Hisfather, Angelo, studying late at a kitchen table to become a court clerk,impressing on him the open-endedness of learning. His deep pride at beingadmitted to Ivy League schools, followed by chagrin when he visited Princetonand no one in the eating clubs would speak to him. "Bunch of stuffed shirts," hesaid. His wound when frat boys at Brown frowned at him for wearing sweatersinstead of tweeds and said, "How did that dago get invited?" His mother, when hecalled to tell her that he was finally ready to wed at 34, to a young woman hehad met, of course, in the library."I'm getting married.""To who?""Susie. You know Susie.""That big German girl?""Yes, Ma, she's German.""What the hell are you gonna eat?"The big German girl is in fact slender as a schoolgirl and still has world-classcheekbones at 75. She tends to Paterno gently, ushering him from kitchen tableto bedroom and back again, clasping his hand when it trembles. "Speak up," Suetells him. Paterno smiles and rasps, "Ordinarily she tells me to shut up."Every little while, Sue pulls a picture from a wall and shows it to Paterno orshares it with one of his many visitors. They are invariably photos of children,of sons and daughters and grandchildren. The children are captured in time andthey are all beautiful. They are new, unmarked, angel-faced, radiant. These arethe images the Paternos cling to, through all the levels of distortion, thepress maelstrom, the impending trials, the grotesqueries described on witnessstands. Whenever someone in her family loses their emotional way, and sits atthe kitchen table weeping for something that's been lost or torn down, Sue holdsa frame out to them and shows them a photograph of unspoiled familial innocence."Look at this picture," she tells them. "This is who we are. And no one can takeus from us."MORE ON THE PENN STATE SCANDAL:Complete coveragehttp://www.washingtonpost.com/paternoExcerpts from interview with Joe PaternoPhotos: Images of Paterno at home and through his careerVideo: Sally Jenkins discusses the interviewChat, Monday, 10 a.m.: Submit your questions for JenkinsYour comments on Joe Paterno#paternospeaks on TwitterPoll: How do you feel about Paterno's actions?jenkinss@washpost.com