Dear Carolyn:I am 18 and nearly finished with high school. Last July when I was in France, Iwas date-raped by an older French man. I have had a very rocky year emotionally,with a lot of nightmares and flashbacks. I have, in fact, gone to therapy sinceSeptember, and I am tremendously better but still coping with a lot of pain.This year I have worked as an intern at the French Embassy, and last Friday Ifinally mustered up the courage to ask about the procedures for prosecution ofrape in France. The woman I asked responded in a warm and maternal way, andhelped me understand all my options. The best seems to be sending a letter tothe special prosecutor of the city where it happened.I wrote the letter, but I haven't decided whether to send it. I am afraid if Ikeep pursuing this, it will dredge up more pain. But I am torn because I thinkthis might provide closure for me and allow me to move on. My therapist said Ishould make sure this thing doesn't spiral out of my control. She thinks this isanother one of my attempts to heal in a clean sweep, which, unfortunately,doesn't seem possible.N.I'm so sorry. Please take care of yourself.And that's about all I'm willing to tell you to do. Of the people you've askedfor help, the ones you should listen to are, in descending order: yourself, yourtherapist, the embassy woman, me. Which means I won't be urging you to doanything your gut or your much better informed therapist advises against.I will say this about "closure": I hate it. Loathe it. Despise it. Granted, Isee how it works in the context of therapy--a rape counselor explained to methat it's a useful tool to help people move beyond a traumatic event--but it'san idea that should have stayed locked in a treatment room.The "closure" that now infects public discourse is a neat little bow that wrapsup all our troubles. It's a canard, a cruel tease for people who've alreadysuffered enough. Want certainty? Here it is: Terrible things happen, they can'tbe un-happened, and all we can do with them is not let them beat us.(Hold on to breakfast, everyone--I'm having a Stuart Smalley moment.)You, N., are so, so far from defeated. You're bright, you're graduating, you'vegot an internship to be proud of, you've got guts to spare. You've seen Hell andyou've chosen Earth--and you confirm that choice every morning when you get outof bed and draw another breath and give the world another crack at you. You doit because you know, better than you think, that you can take it. And you knowthe world that produced your rapist is the same one that makes mommies and warmcookies and best friends and Jane Austen heroines and the campfire scene in"Blazing Saddles."Speaking of good things . . . Consider prosecution only in terms of real andpositive results: seeing him punished, your rape avenged, other women protected.Then decide if any of these is worth the added pain. Then be realistic. Willthis added pain be squandered on a hopeless cause? Do you have evidence and thelaw behind you? Rape prosecutions are notoriously difficult, date rape is worse,and date rape overseas--you'd best know exactly what you're getting into, wellbefore you get into it.Dear Carolyn:Last year I met a man, and I thought we really hit it off, but I was in arelationship that died a month later. Now, whenever we see each other socially,sparks fly. I took this as interest and asked him out. He refused and said wewould go out some other time. I gave up but kept tabs on him through a mutualfriend. Recently he voluntarily told this friend that he thought we got alongwell and would probably have awesome sex and a great relationship, but he wasafraid of getting hurt.One of the reasons I am drawn to him is his intensely romantic side and becausehe said he did not want to have sex unless he loved the person. I saw himrecently and he actually bragged about having a one-nighter with some personhe'd been lusting over for a long time. Later I told him I was interested inhim, and he again rebuffed me by telling me I am too busy (How would he knowsince he never calls me?). I was insulted by his response and don't think heever will call. Should I give up?RebuffedHe's manipulative and deeply infatuated with himself; you're gullible and deeplyinfatuated with him. You're perfect for him.But if you want your dignity back, giving up is a start.Write to Tell Me About It, Style Plus, 1150 15th St. NW, Washington, D.C. 20071or tellme@washpost.com, and join Carolyn's live discussion at noon today or at 8p.m. Monday on The Post's Web site, www.washingtonpost.com