Maryland Attorney General Doug Gansler's failure to report apparent underagedrinking at a raucous "Beach Week" party that he visited reminds us of America'sgross hypocrisy in keeping laws on the books that large swaths of society haveno intention of enforcing.Gansler, who's running for governor, deserves all the criticism heaped on himfor his double talk over the incident in Delaware. He said initially that he hadno moral authority over other people's children, even though he's recordedpublic service announcements discouraging teen drinking.Laughably, Gansler suggested he hadn't been certain the youths' red plastic cupscontained beer.Clearly, a top law enforcement official shouldn't be tolerating such wrongdoing.But let's be honest: Thousands of local parents do the same every spring.They allow their 18-year-olds to celebrate graduating from high school with anunsupervised week at Ocean City or similar venue, where the rite of passageoften includes kegs, shots and the occasional blackout.It's another example of how the legal drinking age of 21 is routinely ignored,especially on college campuses. Parents and other adult authorities often winkat the violations, or even cooperate to minimize potential harm by ensuring thatnobody drives drunk.We ought to have a large-scale public debate about lowering the drinking age to18, combined with stepped-up education to encourage young people who want todrink to learn to do so responsibly and in moderation.Sadly, the political climate doesn't allow such a discussion. Anybody whoquestions keeping the drinking age at 21 runs into a wall of opposition fromsuch advocates as Mothers Against Drunk Driving, or MADD.Supporters of the current law - which generally bars people under 21 frompurchase or public possession of alcohol - believe it's vital to protect youngpeople. Nobody in Congress wants to argue with that.Consider what happened to the Amethyst Initiative of 2008. More than 130 collegeand university presidents declared that "twenty-one is not working." They saidthe abstinence-only policy contributed to a dangerous culture of clandestinebinge drinking among students.Signers, who included the top officials at the University of Maryland and JohnsHopkins, stopped short of explicitly urging a lower drinking age. Instead, theycalled for "an informed and dispassionate public debate."It didn't happen. The effort drew some interest but then withered under a blazeof righteous indignation."It was immediately met with a vituperative response from MADD, which sentletters to everybody who signed it, saying they were endangering children undertheir care," said Barrett Seaman, president of Choose Responsibility, thenonprofit group that launched the initiative."It's been hard for us, given that kind of pushback, to get others to take therisk," he said.Now, I join practically everyone in applauding MADD for raising publicconsciousness to help stop drunken driving. I also concede there are risks inlowering the legal age to 18. In particular, it could encourage more drinkingamong those 17 and younger.But people who defend the law have a responsibility to explain how they think itshould be enforced and why they think that's not happening now.MADD says college administrators should do more."It's time for college campuses to step up to the plate," said J.T. Griffin, thegroup's chief government affairs officer. "Shouldn't we strive to have a placethat's for learning, that's not about going out on Friday or Saturday night andgetting wasted?"But students I interviewed at U-Md.'s College Park campus said the law wasunenforceable. Students use fake IDs or obtain alcohol from older friends - oreven their parents."Virtually no one takes that law seriously," said Rami Yanes, 18, of Hagerstown.Even the school's Baptist chaplain said under-21 drinking was so widespread thatcampus authorities settled for trying to limit the harm."As long as students are not causing too much noise and there's no report ofsexual assault or other major problems, they basically let it go," JessicaSenasack said.Several students said lowering the drinking age could encourage more responsiblebehavior by bringing drinking out in the open."People need to learn to be able to handle alcohol properly," said India Lewis,19, of New Jersey. "If the drinking age were lower, and drinking were more acultural thing, they would be less sloppy about it."University System of Maryland Chancellor William Kirwan, who signed the AmethystInitiative five years ago, said through a spokesman that he stands by it."He did not and does not endorse lowering the drinking age to under 21, butrather supported a thorough public health policy discussion," the spokesmansaid. Kirwan urged "thorough research on how young people can become informed tomake better and more responsible decisions with regard to alcohol that conformwith the law."That's a thoughtful, conscientious position. It deserves a full airing ratherthan instant dismissal.robert.mccartney@washpost.comFor my previous columns, go to washingtonpost.com/mccartney.