Before buying a house in Bethesda last month, Susan Fiorella tapped away on herkeyboard. She researched schools. She checked crime statistics. She evensolicited opinions about neighborhoods from an e-mail group for urban moms anddads."A lot of people don't need to be as rigorous to develop this kind of comfortlevel," said Fiorella, a strategist for a health-care provider and the mother oftwo young children. "We did exhaustive research; that's our personality."In an era when Googling has become a national pastime, schools, policedepartments, businesses and governments are making it easier to researchneighborhoods, lessening the chances of buyer's remorse.Many school Web sites, for example, post test scores and write about specialofferings such as magnet programs. Some police departments provide statistics oncrime in specific areas. Some county governments post locations of parks andneighborhood master plans. A U.S. government Web site even pinpoints locationsof sex offenders, down to a specific block."I recommend to all my purchasers: Familiarize yourself with the neighborhoodbefore you write the offer," said Judi Seiden, an associate broker forPrudential Carruthers Realtors on Capitol Hill.Said Joel Abalos, an agent at Keller Williams Realty of Fairfax Gateway inFairfax: "You don't want to sell a house to somebody and two weeks after closingthey find out there's a rapist next door."In the BTI era -- Before the Internet -- would-be buyers or their real estateagents often ran around to gather information packets from schools, librariesand government offices. The Web has changed that."It's made it much easier," said Robyn Burdett, an agent with Re/Max Allegiancein Fairfax. "It's taken away a lot of the legwork, and I want to say the unknownis gone."She said, "Just going to the Metro Web site, my client can figure out the busschedule for the park-and-ride and how they all connect and how long they take."Still, when a Web site won't quite satisfy, she recommends finding out theold-fashioned way. To find out more about a school, for example, she sometimessuggests that clients talk with the principal or call another parent to askquestions."I've also had clients walk their kids through the school," she said.One of her clients, Jason Lynch, an ecologist with the Environmental ProtectionAgency, is living with relatives in the Washington area while he researcheshomes and neighborhoods. In the meantime, his wife and two daughters, ages 4 and7, are back home in Illinois.Besides researching schools on the Web, he said, he has been experimenting withcommutes from Northern Virginia to the District.As for crime prevalence, he said, he is relying on what his relatives tell him."My brother-in-law has lived in Reston for about 25 years," he said.Real estate agents say federal fair-housing laws limit what they can say about aschool district or neighborhood, particularly when it comes to race andsocioeconomic indicators.Many simply play it safe by referring clients to Web sites or suggesting otherways to assuage concerns. Besides, agents say, they fear giving out badinformation."I try to give them as much information as possible by giving them the Websites, locations and the Montgomery Board of Education phone numbers, and I tellthem they should do their homework," said Kris Feldman of Coldwell BankerResidential Brokerage in Bethesda.Seiden said she sometime tells clients to visit a block "in the morning whenpeople go to work and in the evening when they're coming home -- and feel freeto have a conversation. For the most part, everyone is very forthcoming."She added: "For a third check, go late in the evening and check out the activityand see how comfortable you feel, acknowledging that anything new is going to bestrange. If they come back and say, 'Gee I hate it,' it's not the house forthem."Abalos, the Fairfax County real estate agent, warned that visits alone sometimesgive an incomplete picture."Sometimes people think, driving at night, they can tell if there's a high crimerate," he said. "I don't think it's accurate. It's better to call the police andcheck statistics."Some police department Web sites, including those for the District and PrinceGeorge's County, provide a breakdown of crime statistics by neighborhood, oftenreferred to as crime mapping. Some other departments that don't, such asArlington's, encourage prospective buyers to contact them."What we do is put them through to our district office, whatever districtthey're moving into," said John Lisle, a spokesman for the Arlington CountyPolice Department. "We get a lot of requests. The district office pulls up crimestatistics for a certain period to give them an idea what crime has been like inthe area."Neighborhood e-mail lists or Web sites for communities such as Mount Pleasant inNorthwest Washington (http://mtpleasantdc.org) are forums to discussneighborhood issues, activities and crime. They can give prospective buyers afeel for the area.For many buyers with children, the bulk of the research focuses on schools. Somefree Web sites rank schools nationally. And schools themselves normally providea wealth of information on their sites, in some cases the number of incidentsinvolving fights or guns.According to the Montgomery County school system's Web site, for instance,Ashburton Elementary School on Lone Oak Drive in Bethesda had 570 students inthe 2006-07 school year, of whom 56.1 percent were white, 12.8 percent Hispanic,17.5 percent Asian and 13.5 percent African American. The ratio of students toinstructional staff was 9.7 to 1. Kindergarten classes averaged 23.7 students;for grades 4 and 5, average class size was 22.The Washington Post's Local Explorer service, at http://www.washingtonpost.com/localexplorer, provides neighborhood-driven local news as well as mappinginformation about home sales, businesses, schools and crime.Other commercial Web sites such as Homefair.com provide not only schoolinformation but also profiles of cities. Typing a Zip code brings upneighborhood data breaking down the population into categories: male and female;married, divorced and widowed; average household income; ethnic and racialbackground; and education level. The site also provides crime statistics andaverage home sale prices.Jean Lin, a lawyer who moved from Brooklyn to Bethesda with her husband, also alawyer, focused her Internet research on schools, comparing two or threedistricts. She checked math and English scores and other data.She said she's not even sure her kids, now 1 and 3 years old, will ever attendthe high schools in the areas she examined. However, she said, "We also knewfrom our limited experience there's a correlation between good school districtsand how well a house keeps its value."For some parents, knowing whether there's a sex offender in the neighborhood isimportant, real estate agents said.One of the better Web sites for that is the Dru Sjodin National Sex OffenderPublic Registry, run by the U.S. Justice Department and named after a woman whowas killed by a convicted offender. Typing in a Zip code produces a list ofoffenders, with photos and locations.For example, in the 20015 Zip code in upper Northwest Washington, two sexoffenders were listed: one 66 years old, the other 75. The victims of both werechildren. In Chantilly, Zip code 20152 had two registered sex offenders: a38-year-old man convicted of taking indecent liberties with a child and a59-year-old man convicted of third-degree sexual assault.Ron Sitrin, a real estate agent for Long & Foster in Friendship Heights, alsowarned that prospective buyers should check the government master plan for aneighborhood. Some governments, such as Montgomery and Fairfax counties, postthem on their Web sites.The key, he said, is to avoid unwelcome surprises. "You want to make sure you'renot buying on a single-lane road that's getting ready to double in size."