It is easier to be polite than kind. It is easier to do the correct thing thanthe right thing. It is easier to do what is good for the program than what isgood.Nowhere is this more visible than in the Freeh report on what happened at PennState.The report is difficult to read. You look for heroes and find only people,people who chose over and over to do the wrong thing. Throughout, everyoneobserves the correct forms. Jerry Sandusky groped boys in the shower? No needfor a police report without direct evidence of a crime. No need to inform theboard of trustees. Cling to the letter of the law.Famed football coach Joe Paterno waits to tell university officials of MikeMcQueary's shocking report of a sexual assault in the showers because he did not"want to interfere with their weekends." The officials worry about taking a"humane" approach to confronting Sandusky. "Humane"!They speak of the assault in polite, vague language. "Fondling, whatever youmight call it," Paterno said. "I didn't push Mike to describe exactly what itwas because he was very upset." Don't want to ruin your weekend! Don't want tobe inhumane to Jerry! Wouldn't want to upset Mike any further!It would be so much easier if people were obviously bad. If only the abusers ofchildren were nameless, faceless menaces who rolled along in dark vans withcandy. Instead it is Jerry with the office down the hall. The nameless, facelessfigure isn't the predator but the victim.The lack of compassion for the victims was "striking," as the report said. Butstartling? No. It is hard to have compassion for someone whose name you do notknow and whose face you have not seen. Liability aside, no wonder they didn'twant to learn it. To put a face and a name to the incident would requireconfronting the fact that a person was harmed - not Victim 6, but a person asreal as Mike or Jerry or Joe.The question with which I turned to the Freeh report was: How do we prevent thisfrom happening again? Its answer was painfully simple: You can't. Until peoplediscover that what really damages your institution is sacrificing your decencyto its good name, such horrors will keep happening.The right thing to do was the hard, impolite thing, the thing that was bad forthe program, bad for Jerry down the hall and seemed likely to do away with Joe'shopes for a statue.All HR codes and policies are the accumulated result of incidents no oneexpected to happen. "Do not throw copy supplies from the ninth-floor windowwhile shouting in tongues," the new policy reads. "Do not create a black-marketbusiness selling coffee filters. Do not tweet ill-advised personal commentsabout the HR director." Each incident brings another line. There are codes ofconduct and forms of politeness and guidelines for behavior. They are nosubstitute for doing the right thing. And it is not the foreseeable problemsthat you have to worry about. It is not the things that policy covers, the smallverboten things with easy solutions that you have to fear.People like Sandusky may well be monsters. But more frightening are the peoplewho weren't monsters and allowed this monstrous thing to keep on happening.The real question of history is not how bad things happen to good people but howgood people allow bad things to happen.How can a whole group of people, doing what they say they thought was thecorrect thing at the time, produce something so horrible? For the program? Toavoid bad publicity? For football? For Joe and Jerry?The question is not, Why didn't anyone say anything? People said things. Theysaid the correct things to the correct people.But the right thing proved more elusive.What depresses me most is the last section of the report, offering a pathforward. There are pages and pages of new duties, checklists, new measures forcompliance with the law, new processes for reporting. A better process iscertainly not a bad idea. But the central problem here was that people did onlywhat they thought the process required - if that.There is only one sentence that might make a difference. It's the one aboutrethinking the culture. Then what? You can't legislate virtue. People tend to beworse in bulk. Individual failures of conscience multiply in the name ofsomething comfortingly large like "the program."The bitter irony of all this is that every action taken to protect the school,the program, the legacy has had the opposite effect. You won't be able to hearthe name Joe Paterno without the name Jerry Sandusky following a heartbeatlater. If someone had done the right thing, rather than just the correct thing,that might not be the case.Alexandra Petri writes the ComPost blog at washingtonpost.com/blogs/compost.