Hey, kid. I think it's time we had the talk. Not that talk. We will never havethat talk.It's not the talk that all parents give their children about vigilance andsafety in crowds, either.No, I mean the other talk. The talk that at least two National Review writers(as the Atlantic's Ta-Nehisi Coates observes) have had with their sons, aboutwhat you should and should not be afraid of. TheI'm-not-racist-but-here-is-some-harsh-real-advice-my-father-once-gave-me-about-how-you-should-never-speak-to-anyone-different-than-you-ever-especially-not-black-people talk. This isn'tprejudice. It's realism.Here is the talk to end all of those talks.If you want to be absolutely safe in life, listen well. Imbibe my fears. Letthem guide you.Here is a vague smorgasbord of anecdotes, prejudices and bad experiences myuncle once had that will, I think, protect you from death or at least from newexperiences that could change your mind about people, which are in some waysworse.l Don't jog at night. Don't jog during the daytime. Never jog. One hundredpercent of joggers who were mugged were jogging in the first place.l Never marry or have a family. According to the Bureau of Justice Statistics,22 percent of murder victims were killed by spouses or family members.l Never get to know anyone. Most rapists are someone the victim knows.l Never climb a mountain. One hundred percent of people threatened and beaten inmisunderstandings with their sherpas were on mountains in the first place.l Keep away from frustrated painters. They are responsible for more genocidesthan people suffering from any other kind of professional disappointment.l Don't eat fruit. One of your ancestors once tried fruit, and she got kickedout of the place where she was living and had to experience the pains ofchildbirth. (Note: This might not be literally true, but it's about as true asyou need for this sort of story.)l Never speak to Jewish people. One hundred percent of people who have spoken toa Jewish person, even once, are dead now or on their way to being dead.l Avoid bridges and tunnels. One hundred percent of people involved in bridge ortunnel collapses were on bridges or in tunnels.l Don't walk through certain areas of downtown Los Angeles, ever. One of yourdistant relatives once walked through that area, and he was savagely attacked bya saber-toothed tiger and dragged into a tar pit.l Don't use the Internet. The Internet is used by pedophiles.l Avoid bus stops, parking lots, schools, houses, cars, the pyramids, thesuburbs, the city, lakes, oceans, rivers, Kansas, your own back yard,hole-in-the-wall cafes, fancy restaurants, the environs of the Eiffel Tower,places where they serve food that is different from the food your mother cooked,barbecues, street festivals, Grandma's house. Terrible things have happened inall those places.l Don't visit Gettysburg. Your great-great-great-great-great-uncle Elmer visitedGettysburg, and he was shot by a Confederate soldier.l Don't eat packaged food. It can be contaminated. Don't eat unpackaged food. Itcan be unclean. Don't eat.l Never date someone who comes from a different socioeconomic background thanyou. All four of your parents will die.l Never date someone outside your race. You will both die, sometimes even ofliver failure.This is how the world is, really.These are not prejudices or misunderstandings but rather hard, cold facts.Your fear is the only thing that matters.So far, no one who said that a life lived in fear is not worth living has evermade it out.Try, if possible, not to be born. If you are born, you will have to interactwith people who are different from you, and you will learn, and you will changeyour mind, and you will discover all kinds of wonder and unlooked-for happiness,and, one day, you will die.This must be avoided at all costs.Alexandra Petri writes the ComPost blog at washingtonpost.com/blogs/compost.