RICHMOND -TheVirginia Senatehttp://www.washingtonpost.com/vaassemblynarrowlyapproved Tuesday a modified version of a contentious proposalthat would requirewomen to get an external ultrasound before an abortion.The 21 to 19 vote, mostly along party lines, came a week after Gov. Robert F.McDonnell (R) asked legislators to revise the bill following protests on CapitolSquare and repeated mocking on national television. http://www.washingtonpost.com/blogs/virginia-politics/post/saturday-night-live-mocks-virginia-anti-abortion-bills/2012/02/20/gIQA9WJQPR_blog.htmlLawmakers amended the original bill, whichmandated that women undergo a transvaginal ultrasound, a procedure that requiresa probe be inserted into the vagina.Democratic Sens. Charles J. Colgan (Prince William) and Phillip P. Puckett(Russell) voted with Republicans in favor of the scaled-back measure. OneRepublican, Sen. John C. Watkins (Chesterfield), voted with Democrats againstit.http://www.washingtonpost.com/blogs/virginia-politics/post/saturday-night-live-mocks-virginia-anti-abortion-bills/2012/02/20/gIQA9WJQPR_blog.htmlIn a long and impassioned debate Tuesday,Democrats argued that the ultrasound procedure would be unconstitutional andcostly, and that it was merely designed to discourage women from seekingabortions."Women who want to have abortions will go to back alleys. Women will die,'' Sen.L. Louise Lucas (D-Portsmouth) admonished her colleagues. "They are not going tolet you tell them what to do with their bodies."The bill will head back to the Republican-led House of Delegates, whichalreadyvoted for similar measures this yearand is widely expected to do so again.McDonnell, who signed legislation last year that imposed new regulationsonclinics that perform abortions, told reporters that he will review thelegislation but supports the concept."I think women have the right to know all of the medical information before theymake a very important choice,'' McDonnell said.The Senate amended the bill to exclude women who have reported to lawenforcement agencies that they are victims of rape and incest, but it did notexempt women who know that their babies would suffer from birth defects."The purpose of the bill is to make sure the mothers have more information as tothe gestational age and physical development before making a decision as to theabortion,'' said Sen. Stephen H. Martin (R-Chesterfield), who spoke during thedebate.A series of other amendments died that would have forced insurance companies tocover the cost of the ultrasounds or required the state to pick up the tab forwomen without health insurance. Lt. Gov. Bill Bolling (R), who presides over theequally divided Senate, cast three tie-breaking votes on the amendments.Opponents of the bill, including Planned Parenthood Advocates of Virginia, NARALPro-Choice Virginia and the American Civil Liberties Union, said they have notdecided whether to challenge the legislation in court should McDonnell sign it.Seven other states have similar laws.Republicans, who control both chambersof the General Assembly, have consideredseveral abortion-related measures in the 60-day legislative session. But most,including those ending state subsidies for low-income womento abort fetuses thathave serious birth defects and giving rights to fertilized eggs,have beenkilled.The House and Senate had already approved versions of the ultrasoundlegislation. But a national uproar over the measure and opponents'graphic detailof the ultrasoundsin early pregnancies led McDonnell - an abortion opponent - tointervene.An abdominal - or "jelly-on-the-belly" - ultrasound before an abortion wouldstill be required. Both abdominal and transvaginal ultrasounds are already usedby most abortion providers.Sen. Janet D. Howell (D-Fairfax) described the original version of the bill as"state rape'' and said the new version is tantamount to "state assault.""Very rarely do I get angry, but I am angry about this bill,'' she said. "Itreflects an attitude that is demeaning to women. It presumes the legislature -which as we look around is virtually all male - knows better what should happento a woman's body than the woman herself and her physician.''Sen. Richard L. Saslaw (D-Fairfax) tried unsuccessfully to have the measure bereconsidered next year - a maneuver that has worked on other contentious bills."This is just a senseless procedure to make some people, I guess, feel good andput another obstacle up in the way of people who are trying to access thatprocess,'' Saslaw said. "It serves no useful purpose."The debate was postponed Monday after Republicans hunted for votes. By Tuesday,the vote was widely expected, and responses from advocacy groups came minutesafter the legislation passed."Pro-life Virginians, not cast members of 'Saturday Night Live,' sentlegislators to this General Assembly through their vote to pass legislation likethis because they understand that abortion is an invasive and risky procedureand that the abortion industry simply cannot be trusted put the woman's healthand safety ahead of its profits,'' said Victoria Cobb, president of theconservative Family Foundation.kumaranita@washpost.comMore from The Washington Post:Remains of 9/11 victims were dumped in a landfill, Defense Dept. saysFeds allege $375M Medicare scam, largest ever against a single doctorSuspect used nuclear threat to rob Prince George's banks, police sayRedskins willing to pay Rams' price for No. 2 spot in draft