Notre Dame is back.There's simply no arguing with the fact that the Fighting Irish, who are 6-0,are in the national championship picture.For those who loved the movie "Rudy," and get chills every time they hear theNotre Dame fight song, this is welcome news after 18 seasons of mostly mediocrefootball. In his third season as coach, Brian Kelly is rapidly becoming an iconat the school.Long forgotten is his decision two autumns ago to practice outdoors ingale-force winds two days after an embarrassing loss to Navy, a decision thatled to team manager Declan Sullivan being on a video tower when a gust of windblew the tower down and killed him. Also apparently forgotten is schoolPresident John Jenkins's refusal to meet with the family of a young woman whocommitted suicide shortly after filing a sexual assault complaint against aNotre Dame football player.Father Jenkins refused to meet with the family because his lawyer advised himnot to do so. Apparently comforting the afflicted only applies at Notre Dameupon the advice of counsel.Now, it is as if those awful moments never happened. It is all good at NotreDame right now. The Irish, led by a superb defense that includes, arguably, thebest player in the country - senior linebacker Manti Te'o - have beaten more"name" teams than anyone ranked in the top 10. They are ranked No. 5 in thefirst BCS rankings released Sunday night.The fact that Michigan, Michigan State and Miami have turned out to be dudsisn't Notre Dame's fault. When they were scheduled, they looked like tough outs.Notre Dame gave up a total of 12 points to the three of them.The defense was just as good on Saturday in a thrilling, though controversial,20-13 overtime win over Stanford. Once again, it didn't surrender a touchdown inregulation. The Cardinal's only touchdown came when quarterback Everett Golsonfumbled in the end zone in the second quarter and Stanford recovered.Whether Stanford scored a touchdown in overtime is, at the very least, open todebate. After the Irish scored to take a 20-13 lead, Stanford had firstand goalat the Notre Dame 4-yard line. Four times running back Stepfan Taylor tried toget into the end zone and four times - according to the officials - he came upshort.Exactly why Stanford didn't change up the play-calling against a defense thathas given up three touchdowns in six games is a legitimate question to raise.That said, it appeared to most people that Taylor scored on second effort on thefourth-down play. The officials on the field ruled that he didn't score, andreplay officials upheld the call even though it looked as if Taylor's forwardprogress was never completely stopped before he spun and dove into the end zone.And so everyone at Notre Dame is all smiles right now. The Irish have two toughgames left on their schedule: at Oklahoma in two weeks and at SouthernCalifornia to close out the season.The other four games are virtual walkovers for a good team: Brigham Young,Boston College, Pittsburgh and Wake Forest. The latter three, who have combinedto win three games this season against Football Bowl Subdivision opponents, willgive the Irish a taste of what they can expect when they start playing five ACCopponents a couple of years from now. It will, no doubt, be a very sweet taste.What's more, the two more difficult games hardly look impossible. Oklahoma haslost to Kansas State and Southern California has lost to Stanford and has hardlylooked overwhelming most weeks in spite of all its preseason hype. Bet this: IfNotre Dame wins out, it will play in the BCS title game even if Alabama, Oregonand Kansas State also are undefeated.Less likely to happen but not out of the question is Te'o winning the HeismanTrophy. Pure defensive players don't win the Heisman (remember Charles Woodsonplayed on offense and special teams when he won in 1997) but Te'o has a shot, inpart because the most likely candidates on offense keep tripping overthemselves. USC's Matt Barkley was practically handed the award in September,but didn't play well against Stanford and hasn't been brilliant since then. Intothat void stepped West Virginia's Geno Smith, until he and his team wereembarrassed on Saturday at Texas Tech.Oregon's De'Anthony Thomas is spectacular but teammate Kenjon Barner seems toget the ball a lot more. Kansas State's Collin Klein is extremely solid, but ishe spectacular enough to win the Heisman?Te'o is a wonderful player, a terrific kid and he plays for an undefeated NotreDame team that is built around him and its defense. Miracles happen at NotreDame, right? Just ask Saturday's replay officials.ElsewhereIn case you hadn't noticed - and you probably haven't - the Big East has threeundefeated teams: Louisville, Cincinnati and Rutgers. Of course their wins onSaturday were over Pittsburgh, Fordham and Syracuse, respectively, so that mightexplain why no one has noticed.Savannah State update: The Tigers, who opened their season by being outscored,139-0, by Oklahoma State and Florida State because school administrators thoughtnothing of letting their players get beaten up in order to cash two guaranteechecks, are now 0-6 and have been outscored, 190-51, since the first two games.. . .Surprise team of the season to date:Oregon State is 5-0 after beating BYU,42-24, on Saturday. The Beavers were 3-9 a year ago and weren't expected to betoo much better than that this season.They play Utah next Saturday. After that they still have to play at Washingtonand at Stanford before closing the season at home against Oregon.For more by the author, visit his blog at www.feinsteinonthebrink.com. To readhis previous columns for The Post, go to washingtonpost.com/feinstein.