11/22/63By Stephen King (Scribner, $35)The prolific author's latest novel - the tale of a small-town teacher whotravels back in time to prevent JFK's assassination - is rich with the pleasureswe've come to expect from King: characters of good heart and wounded lives. -Jeff GreenfieldTHE ART OF FIELDINGBy Chad Harbach(Little, Brown, $25.99)An accomplished first novel about the changing fortunes of a college baseballplayer offers lessons that reach far beyond the diamond. - Dennis DrabelleBINOCULAR VISIONByEdith Pearlman (Lookout, $18.95)In this story collection, which was a National Book Award finalist, Pearlmanpresents her characters - widows, historians, children, musicians - in prose asspare and eloquent as that of her contemporary Joan Didion. - Marcela ValdesBIRDS OF PARADISEBy Diana Abu-Jaber(Norton, $25.95)With exquisite patience and psychological precision, Abu-Jaber unravels themystery of a young woman's decision to run from her Miami home, destroy herparents' happiness and remain at risk. - Ron CharlesBLOODMONEYBy David Ignatius (Norton, $25.95)Washington Post columnist Ignatius brings a straight-from-the-case-file feelingto his eighth spy novel, a taut political thriller that turns on a botched CIAoperation. You emerge from its pages as if from a top-level security briefing. -Dan FespermanTHE CALLBy Yannick Murphy (Harper Perennial; paperback, $14.99)A small-town New England veterinarian's life is upended when his son is badlyinjured in a hunting accident. Murphy brings emotional heft, humor and off-handpoetry to this tale of redemption. - Michael LindgrenCARIBOU ISLANDBy David Vann(Harper, $25.99)Vann's story of a family's unraveling in southern Alaska explores emotionallyraw territory - conflicted feelings of love and our friable ties to those wecare for most. - RCTHE CAT'S TABLEBy Michael Ondaatje (Knopf, $26)A playful novel with bite, this introspective story from the author of "TheEnglish Patient" moves gracefully through a three-week adventure when thenarrator was an 11-year-old boy, traveling on a steamer from Sri Lanka toEngland- RCCONQUISTADORABy Esmeralda Santiago (Knopf, $27.50)The conquistadora of this sweeping historical novel is an alluring, flawedheroine - a strong, intelligent and enigmatic woman who becomes the master of a19th-century sugar plantation in Puerto Rico. - Eugenia ZukermanDAISY BUCHANAN'S DAUGHTERBy Tom Carson(Paycock, $24.95)A satiric revue of the American Century starring an elderly version of "TheGreat Gatsby's" Pamela Buchanan. The literary heroine is now a blogger, and hernarration of some defining moments of the 20th century is as witty as Wilde, aspunny as Joyce. - Steven MooreTHE DEVIL ALL THE TIMEBy Donald Ray Pollack(Doubleday, $26.95)Set in the backwaters of the rural Midwest, Pollack's gritty novel lives up toits title: The book is rife with evil, darkness and blood - lots of it. Hisportrait of small-town America might be stark, even shocking, but it is alsoirresistible. - Robert GoolrickA DROP OF THE HARD STUFFBy Lawrence Block(Mulholland, $25.99)A prequel to the beloved Matthew Scudder series, this taut suspense story findsits recovering alcoholic private eye caught up in the dark underworld of achildhood friend - a brazenly simple plot premise, executed faultlessly. -Maureen CorriganTHE EVOLUTION OF BRUNO LITTLEMOREBy Benjamin Hale(Twelve, $25.99)Swinging through this absurd tale of a talking chimpanzee, Hale wraps hisprehensile wit around humanity's deepest philosophical questions - from themagic of consciousness to the reifying function of language and the value of artand the morality of science. - RCFAITHBy Jennifer Haigh (Harper, $25.99)Haigh brings a refreshing degree of humanity to a story you think you know well:sexual abuse by Catholic priests. In chapters both riveting and profound, shecatches the avalanche of guilt this tragedy unleashes in one devout family. - RCFALLENBy Karin Slaughter (Delacorte, $26)Slaughter's gripping thriller about a good cop who tries to find her kidnappedmother and protect her two children balances brutality with a compassionate viewof her complex and all-too-human characters. - Patrick AndersonFIELD GRAYBy Philip Kerr (Marian Wood/Putnam, $26.95)Kerr's indomitable hero, anti-Nazi P.I. Bernie Gunther, is captured and forcedto reveal his wartime exploits. What emerges is a vivid yarn that propels Bernieacross Europe and ratchets up the moral complexities of the battered, defiantGerman Everyman. - PATHE FORGOTTEN WALTZBy Anne Enright(Norton, $25.95)Set in modern Ireland, Enright's beautifully written drama centers on anadulterous woman and her conflicted emotions, deftly exploring connectionsbetween desire and responsibility. - Roxana RobinsonTHE GRIEF OF OTHERSBy Leah Hager Cohen(Riverhead, $26.95)After the loss of their infant son, a couple's life unravels, but thanks toCohen's vibrant prose, there's hope threaded through this book's sad heart. -Sarah PekkanenJAMRACH'S MENAGERIEBy Carol Birch (Doubleday, $25.95)This exciting sea tale about a boy searching for a Komodo dragon will take youback to those great 19th-century maritime adventures. - RCKING OF THE BADGERSByPhilip Hensher(Faber & Faber, $26)Savage with a soupcon of tenderness, Hensher's satire set in a sleepy Britishtown abounds with colorful characters - and a dash of suspense centering on thedisappearance of a child. - Lisa ZeidnerLAST MAN IN TOWERBy Aravind Adiga(Knopf, $26.95)Adiga, a Man Booker Prize-winning novelist and former financial journalist,captures the economic and moral turmoil of modern India in his novel about realestate and the conflicting interests of community and development. - MVTHE LEFTOVERSBy Tom Perrotta(St. Martin's, $25.99)Three years after a Rapture-like event in which millions of people disappeared,the surviving residents of a small town are left to figure out what it meant.Perrotta's insightful novel, leavened with humor and tinged with creepiness,draws us into some very dark corners of the human psyche. - RCLUMINARIUMBy Alex Shakar(Soho, $25)Something like an adult version of "Sophie's World" for readers clicking between"Mortal Kombat" and Immanuel Kant, Shakar's metaphysical novel exploresdifferent facets of belief and the manipulation of consciousness. - RCTHE MAGICIAN KING,By Lev Grossman(Viking, $26.95)In this sequel to his 2009 bestseller "The Magician," Grossman riffs on classicsof the fantasy genre, infusing it with cool. This is not your father's Narnia -or your younger sister's Hogwarts. - Keith DonohueMAINEBy J. Courtney Sullivan (Knopf, $25.95)Three generations of guilt-ridden, willful, scheming women unload theirpsychological baggage at their family's summer home. Sullivan's ruthless andtender novel shows us how love can sometimes redeem even the most contentiousfamilies. - Howard Frank MosherA MAN OF PARTSBy David Lodge (Viking, $26.95)A mesmerizing novel-cum-biography of H.G. Wells that that looks closely at howthe Edwardian novelist and ideologue's erotic life affected his career and thepeople close to him. - Michael DirdaTHE MAP OF TIMEBy Felix J. Palma(Atria, $26)In this science fiction, historical, fantasy doorstopper, Spanish writer Palmamingles fictional characters with real ones, including H.G. Wells, in pursuit ofJack the Ripper. - Yvonne ZippTHE MARRIAGE PLOTBy Jeffrey Eugenides(Farrar Straus Giroux, $28)In Eugenides's sophisticated novel, a bright English major and her post-collegefriends struggle with romance and novels - and the romance of novels. - RCTHE MIRADORBy Elisabeth Gille(New York Review of Books; paperback, $14.95)Irene Nemirovsky, acclaimed author of "Suite Francaise," died at Auschwitz atage 39, leaving an incomplete record of her life. In this fictional memoir, herdaughter imagines her mother's experience - a vivid picture of her inner lifeand the tumultuous world that shaped her. - Nora KrugTHE NIGHT CIRCUS,By Erin Morgenstern(Doubleday, $26.95)Morgenstern captures the enchantment of circus life in a whimsical love storyabout two magicians competing in 19th-century London.- RCNIGHTWOODSBy Charles Frazier (Random House, $26)Frazier's anxiously awaited third novel is a cleverly knit thriller about atough young woman in the 1960s who has given up on the people of her small townand gone to live alone in the woods.- RCPLUGGEDBy Eoin Colfer (Overlook, $24.95)From the author of the "Artemis Fowl" series, a bang-up crime novel for adultsstarring an Irish bouncer at a seedy casino in New Jersey. - Lisa ScottolinePYMBy Mat Johnson (Spiegel & Grau, $24)Part social satire, part meditation on race in America - and a rollickingfantasy adventure - "Pym" brilliantly re-imagines and extends Edgar Allan Poe'senigmatic "Narrative of Arthur Gordon Pym of Nantucket."   - MDRIVER OF SMOKEBy Amitav Ghosh(Farrar Straus Giroux, $28)Set amid the 19th-century opium trade, the second thrilling installment ofGhosh's trilogy at times reads like a cross between a Horatio Hornblower taleand a Victorian epistolary novel. - Shashi TharoorSALVAGE THE BONESBy Jesmyn Ward(Bloomsbury, $24)In Ward's trim, fiercely poetic novel, winner of a 2011 National Book Award,four devoted siblings face Hurricane Katrina. In the simple lives of these poorpeople, Ward evokes the tenacious love and desperation of classical tragedy. -RCTHE SENSE OF AN ENDINGBy Julian Barnes(Knopf, $23.95)With his characteristic grace and skill, Barnes tells the story of a60-something retiree living near London who has taken on a difficult project:discerning what role, if any, he may have played in a decades-old tragedy.Winner of the Man Booker Prize. - Jeff TurrentineTHE SISTERS BROTHERSBy Patrick deWitt(Ecco, $24.99)This bloody buddy tale of two hired guns during the Gold Rush is weirdly funny,startlingly violent and steeped in sadness - a reaffirmation of the endurance ofthe Western. - RCTHE SOJOURNBy Andrew Krivak(Bellevue Literary Press; paperback, $14.95)The heart of this novel - a sweeping tale of a young man's journey from Americaback to Europe and into the maw of World War I - is a harrowing portrait of menat war, as powerful as Isaac Babel's Red Cavalry stories. - MDTHE STRANGER'S CHILDBy Alan Hollinghurst(Knopf, $27.95)Hollinghurst recounts the century-spanning aftereffects of a single weekend in asaga that is part social history, part social comedy - and wholly absorbing. -MDSTONE ARABIABy Dana Spiotta (Scribner, $24)In this darkly comic novel, Spiotta explores the effect of broad social ills inthe lives of a pair of siblings: a washed-up Los Angeles musician penning aself-inflating autobiography and his endearingly neurotic sister. - RCTHE SUBMISSIONBy Amy Waldman (Farrar Straus Giroux, $26)An alternative history of the memorialization of the 9/11 victims that featuresa rich ensemble cast and a thoughtful exploration of the debates surrounding it.- Chris CleaveSWAMPLANDIA!By Karen Russell(Knopf, $24.95)The heroine of Russell's charmingly quirky novel is a 13-year-oldalligator-wrestler determined to save her family and their business - a run-downtheme park on an island off the Gulf Coast of Florida. - RCTHERE BUT FOR THEBy Ali Smith (Pantheon, $25)At the heart of Smith's clever and subtly wrenching novel is a dinner partyguest who locks himself in his hosts' spare bedroom between the main course anddessert and refuses to come out . . . for months. - Heller McAlpinTHE TIGER'S WIFEBy Ta Obreht (Random House, $25)Obreht's swirling first novel about a young doctor in a war-torn land infusedwith legends manages to contain the conflicts between Christians and Muslims,science and superstition. - RCTHE TRINITY SIXBy Charles Cumming (St. Martin's, $24.99)Inspired by the true story of the Cambridge Five, a ring of spies whoinfiltrated British intelligence and betrayed their country to the Soviet Unionduring and after WWII, Cumming's masterful novel bears comparison to the worksof Alan Furst and John le Carre. - PATURN OF MINDBy Alice LaPlante(Atlantic Monthly, $24)The narrator of LaPlante's gripping literary thriller is a retired orthopedicsurgeon with dementia who might have murdered her best friend. The suspense ofthis unique book comes not so much from seeing if the prime suspect is guilty asfrom finding out whether she'll learn the truth about herself before her mindslips away. - Stephen AmidonTHE UNREAL LIFE OF SERGEY NABOKOVBy Paul Russell (Cleis; paperback, $16.95)The title of Russell's splendid novel hints at its contents: Sergey Nabokov wasthe younger, homosexual brother of Vladimir, and in this fictional biography, welearn of his mingling among the greats in Parisian salons and of the difficultyof living in his brother's shadow.- DDWE OTHERSBy Steven Millhauser(Knopf, $27.95)Illusion and reality, the power of the imagination, the nature of storytelling,childhood wonders, romantic yearnings - these themes recur throughout thisenchanting story collection by a master of the form. - MDWE THE ANIMALSBy Justin Torreshttp://www.washingtonpost.com/entertainment/books/book-review-we-the-animals-by-justin-torres/2011/08/31/gIQAJOzgNK_story.html(Houghton Mifflin Harcourt, $18)This slender, powerful novel is narrated by a half-white, half-Puerto RicanBrooklyn boy being raised - abusively - in Upstate New York along with his twoolder brothers. - JTWHEN THE KILLING'S DONEBy T.C. Boyle (Viking, $26.95)Boyle's terrifically exciting story - which propels us through 60 years oftumultuous history involving the Northern Channel Islands off the coast ofCalifornia - demonstrates that it's possible to write an environmental novelthat provokes discussion instead of merely thumping away on conventional wisdom.- RC