Since today is my last chance to advise Michael "I've Got the Tenderest RibsThis Side of Tony Roma's" Jordan about what to do in Wednesday's NBA draft, andsince it now appears that the Wizards are inclined to ignore me completely andtake a high school kid, let me go down like Sylvester Stallone's latest bomb,"Driven," screaming like a banshee.It has been my position that the Wizards should use the No. 1 pick to take ShaneBattier, because he is a solid player, a hard worker, a winner, a willingdefender and he certainly appears to be a solid citizen. I think Battier is thebest basketball player in this draft. Which is not to say three or four yearsfrom now a few of these high school kids won't turn out to be better thanBattier. But you run the risk of acting as an incubator for some kid, only towatch him leave via free agency the first chance he gets (see Tracy McGrady).Now, though, there are trendy reports that Battier is dropping so fast, theWizards could trade down and get him with a much lower pick. Seriously, if thesedraft geeks are to be believed, Battier has become the anchor on the Titanic.I figured that having finally gotten the No. 1 pick, the Wizards should use it.If not on Battier, then on someone else. If they want a high school kid, likeKwame Brown or Tyson Chandler, fine. They shouldn't punt the pick away. Theyshould stand up and declare, "We believe in [him]." But if they can get a surestarter in a trade and a sure starter in the draft, a two-for-one, I wouldn'tmake a stink.You can win the NBA championship with one great draft pick (see Lew Alcindor,Bill Russell, Magic Johnson). But that pick isn't in this draft. There's no Shaqhere. And even if one of the high school kids, Brown or Chandler, turns out tobe Shaq, remember, Shaq wasn't fully Shaq in Orlando -- and first chance he gothe bolted for Los Angeles.I trust everybody who wants the Wizards to draft a high school kid read howUtah's DeShawn Stevenson was charged with the statutory rape of a 14-year-oldgirl last week. I'm not suggesting every high school kid who goes straight tothe NBA will face some awful behavioral charge, not at all. Or that anybody whocomes to the NBA after three or four years of college will never have any suchtrouble. But I am suggesting the social adjustment of a teenager to the adultNBA world -- lots of money and free time, and little supervision -- can beproblematic. After a string of players getting arrested in recent years, theWizards need to be diligent with their homework before making their pick. It isas important to pick the right person as it is to pick the right player.I read how Jordan told the Chicago Tribune, "My neck's on the guillotine withthis first pick, and I'm so indecisive." It's understandable Jordan would behesitant. He used his No. 1 coach pick on Leonard Hamilton. He doesn't want toswing and miss like that again. The good news in drafting a high school kid isthat it takes years to find out if you were right or wrong. The bad news is thatyou still have to play 82 games each season while you wait.Of course, 82 games would be enough for Barry Bonds to hit 41 homers, wouldn'tit?Let me go out on a limb here. Bonds is not going to hit 70 home runs. No way.He's going to hit 80.(Editor's note: Tony, are you sure you want to say 80? You could look awfullystupid. And you already look stupid backing Battier.)In for a dime, in for a dollar.The main arguments against Bonds reaching Mark McGwire's magic number of 70homers: 1) He can't possibly continue on this 83-homer pace; and 2) The pressurewill get to him.Okay, 1) Why can't Bonds continue on this pace? He's been on this pace since thefirst day of the season. April, May and June have gone by, and he's still onthis pace. And 2) Why will the pressure get to Bonds? He's no callow kid who'sgoing to be intimidated by a media crush. He's going to be 37 years old nextmonth. He's been a superstar for more than a decade. The media won't unnervehim; Bonds has been such a jerk to the media for so long that if he just throwsthem a crumb here and there on the way to 70 home runs (as Bonds has been doing)they'll make him into a god (as they have been doing).I saw Bonds say on TV that he doesn't want McGwire's home run record -- thething McGwire has that Bonds wants is a World Series ring. They're not mutuallyexclusive. Bonds can have both. But for heaven's sake, Barry, don't keep sayingyou can't see yourself hitting 70 homers. All you try to hit are homers. Comeon, through 76 games Bonds had 39 homers and only 19 singles! He's up thereswinging for the fences. Look at Bonds's ratio of strikeouts to at-bats. For 15previous seasons his ratio was approximately 1:7. This season it's closer to1:4. It suggests Bonds is taking bigger cuts. Bonds is bigger now, literally.He's added close to 20 pounds of muscle in his upper body; from the waist up helooks like Mike Tyson.Bonds will hit 70 homers because he's a lefty; left-handed hitters always havean advantage since most pitchers are righties. And with divisional and wild cardraces -- and this unbalanced schedule -- it now seems possible 21 of the Giantslast 27 games will have playoff implications. Managers who might prefer to walkBonds may think twice about putting the potential tying or winning run on base.And as opposing managers found out in 1998 when they got booed in their ownballpark for walking McGwire, fans will want to see Bonds hit. This all worksfor Bonds.Here's the most amazing part of the Bonds conversation: "70" is already in playjust three seasons after McGwire got there. Think about this: From 1927 through1997 the home run record was 60 or 61. It moved one number in 70 years! Then,McGwire kicked it up nine numbers; in historical context that was a Beamonesqueleap. Logically, there was no reason to believe 70 would be topped for decades.Now in the blink of an eye Bonds has people seriously talking 70 to 75. If I'mMcGwire, I'm bummed. (If I'm the dodo who paid millions for McGwire's No. 70ball, I'm apoplectic.) I understand that McGwire says it's way premature to talkabout Bonds hitting 70. McGwire says if Bonds has 60 by September 1, then youcan start talking about 70. Hey, Bonds could have 60 by August 1.Join Tony Kornheiser and Michael Wilbon for The Chat House, Fridays at 2 p.m. atwashingtonpost.com