ON HIS 18TH DAY OF FREEDOM, Michael Short awakened before dawn. In prison,corrections officers had paced the halls at night, jingling keys and shiningflashlights. Now Mike slept fitfully, even in a king-size bed.It was a damp, gray Tuesday late in February. He slipped on a pinstriped shirtthat hid his tattoos, slid his feet into shiny new loafers and rubbed coconutoil into his hair, cut razor-straight at the temples and flecked with gray. Hewas 36, with a basketball player's long-legged gait and the lined brow of a manwell acquainted with consequences. Standing in front of the bathroom mirror, henervously knotted a silver-and-white tie that his girlfriend had bought him atMacy's.On days like this, he wished the past were a room with a door you could close, aplace you could walk away from, as he had walked away from prison afterPresident Bush commuted his sentence. But the past wasn't like that, at leastnot for him. Over breakfast, he practiced the testimony he was scheduled todeliver that afternoon before a congressional subcommittee: My name is MichaelShort. I am here because in 1992 I was sentenced for selling crack cocaine.Before that, I had never spent a day in prison. I came from a good family. I hadno criminal history. I was not a violent offender. But I was sentenced to servenearly 20 years. I was 21 years old.As he navigated traffic from his girlfriend's house in Charles County andboarded the subway to Capitol Hill, he braced himself for the inevitablequestions, the scrutiny of his crime, the dissection of his punishment. Hiscommutation had taken half a dozen years to materialize and, by Mike'scalculation, had shaved only six months off the time he would have served. Hehad spent more years in prison than many murderers.He arrived at the basement room in the Rayburn House Office Building a half-hourearly and looked around, taking in the raised dais, the plaque that said "Waysand Means." He might have spent this drizzly morning at the Greenbelt healthclub where he had recently landed a job as a personal trainer. Instead, he washere, wondering what was meant by the term "majority whip" and hoping that hewouldn't stutter.The room slowly filled with the most sympathetic crowd he would encounter allday: lawyers, ex-prisoners and advocates who believed that federal crack cocainelaws were unfair and had gathered to lobby for new ones. The subcommitteehearing would not take place until afternoon; this was just a practice sessionto give Mike and other lobbyists some last-minute pointers. Someone handed him abig red button that said, "CRACK the disparity," a reference to the vastdifference in prison terms to which crack and powder cocaine offenders aresentenced. He pinned it to his shirt.Rep. Sheila Jackson Lee, a Democrat from Texas who has introduced a bill toremedy the disparity, walked to the lectern. An imposing woman in an emeraldgreen suit, she wondered aloud what America's founders would have thought, hadthey been able to look into the future and see how many times the country fellshort of its ideals."They set up these models, these principles, that indicated that we had theright of free speech, that we had the right of a trial by our peers," JacksonLee said, her voice rising. "And for those of us [whose forebears] came here inthe bottom of the belly of a slave boat, the 13th and 14th and 15th amendmentssuggested that there was a road map to freedom in this nation. But we havesometimes lost our way."She spoke of how, in the Bible, no one stopped to help the beaten, stripped manon the roadside until the Good Samaritan came along. In much the same way, shesaid, members of Congress had long ignored broken crack cocaine laws thatdisproportionately affected African Americans. Husbands, brothers and sistershad disappeared from their communities for years over relatively minor drugcrimes, she said.Mike pulled a crumpled tissue from his pocket and wiped his eyes. The packedroom felt like church on Sunday morning. As Jackson Lee spoke, people yelled,"Yes!" and "All right now!" When she finished, Mike clapped long and hard.And then, unexpectedly, someone introduced him. He walked to the lectern andstood there, hunching his shoulders as if he were ashamed of his 6-foot-2-inchframe. His voice was gravelly with emotion.He began his spiel: his name, his crime -- the distribution of 63 grams of crackcocaine -- the almost-20-year sentence, the 15 years and eight months he'd spentin prison."How many?" someone called out, incredulous."Fifteen years and eight months of my 19 years," Mike said. He paused, searchingfor a way to explain without asking for sympathy. He tried to maintain hiscomposure."I made a mistake. And it didn't take me 15 years to understand that what I didwas wrong. I deserved to go to prison. But I don't feel as though I deserved togo to prison for 15 years."IN THE SUMMER OF 1986, WHEN MIKE WAS 15, the Boston Celtics selected Len Bias astheir first pick in the NBA draft. A Celtics scout compared him to MichaelJordan, and Bias told a reporter that the first thing he planned to buy was aMercedes. Two days later, he collapsed in his dorm suite at the University ofMaryland, dead of a cocaine overdose. The community that had cheered for himstaggered like a man punched in the gut. Here was a kid from Prince George'sCounty who had laid claim to the American dream with all the ease of a proexecuting a layup. "I can't see why we would lose someone like this," thedirector of a recreation center where Bias had played as a kid told TheWashington Post. "Someone so important to us."Initial medical reports indicated, incorrectly, that the high concentration ofcocaine in Bias's blood suggested that he had died after smoking crack, then thelatest drug to hit America's city streets. Made from powder cocaine cooked withbaking soda, crack was cheaper than powder, and, because it was smoked, the highwas more intense.Living in Hyattsville, the son of a legal secretary and a car salesman, Mikeabsorbed the news, but he was too young to make sense of it. Drugs were not apart of his world. His parents had separated when he was a boy, and his motherraised him and his brother and sister in quiet suburban neighborhoods beforemoving to a neat brick house on Hawaii Avenue in Northeast Washington after Mikegraduated from high school. He was a quiet kid, obsessed with basketball. Hisfriends called him a "mama's boy" because he used to meet his mother at the busstop when she got home from work. "I wouldn't have known what cocaine was if youput it on my dinner plate," he said.Nevertheless, his world reverberated with Len Bias's loss. At Northwestern HighSchool, Bias's alma mater, Mike played on the varsity basketball team with thestar's younger brother Jay. Mike wanted to comfort Jay, who was visiblydistraught, but he didn't know what to say.In Congress, then-House Speaker Tip O'Neill, a Democrat whose Bostonconstituents couldn't stop talking about Bias's death, saw a politicalopportunity. Throughout the 1980s, the federal government had waded deeper intothe war on drugs, part of a trend spawned by the turmoil of the 1960s and '70s.Bias's death offered a perfect chance to capitalize on the growing publicoutcry, especially over crack. "The speaker realizes, if the Democrats take thelead on this, if we play it right, maybe we can win the Senate back," Eric E.Sterling said recently. He was assistant counsel to the House Judiciarysubcommittee on crime in 1986 and now heads the Criminal Justice PolicyFoundation, a Silver Spring nonprofit that educates the public about criminaljustice issues.O'Neill convened the steering and policy committee of the House Democrats andmoved the formation of tougher drug laws to the top of the agenda. Sterling andother staffers were told to draft a law that would punish high-leveltraffickers, but they didn't know what amount of drugs would qualify someone as"high-level" and, with the midterm election campaign season just a few daysaway, they didn't have time to determine that, Sterling said. No hearings wereheld.The Anti-Drug Abuse Act of 1986 established the mandatory minimum drug sentencesthat remain in effect today. It imposed a five-year mandatory prison term forfirst-time trafficking of five or more grams of crack or 500 grams of powder,and a 10-year mandatory minimum for first-time trafficking of 50 grams of crackor five kilos of powder. In drug policy circles, this is known as the "100-to-1drug quantity ratio," and it has hit African Americans hardest because they aremore likely to live in the neighborhoods where crack cocaine is used and sold,even though, in absolute numbers, most crack users are white. In 2006, 82percent of crack offenders sentenced under federal law were African American,according to the U.S. Sentencing Commission, an independent agency set up todevelop a national sentencing policy for the federal courts.In 1988, Congress got even tougher, passing a law that made simple possession offive grams of crack punishable by a mandatory minimum five-year prison term.First-time possession of any amount of any other controlled substance, includingpowder cocaine, is a misdemeanor punishable by a maximum of a year in prison.The only exception is flunitrazepan, also known as Rohypnol, the "date rapedrug," which carries a maximum three-year penalty for first-time possession.Five basic suppositions guided lawmakers in setting such high penalties forcrack, according to research by the Sentencing Commission.Crack is extremely addictive, and because crack users needed to get high morefrequently and tended to have less money than powder users, they were morelikely to engage in criminal behavior to support their addictions, creating atleast a perceived link between crack use and violence. Crack was consideredespecially dangerous, particularly to fetuses. Children were also used aslookouts by dealers and exposed to the drug as addicts. And crack's potency andlow price -- about $10 for two small pieces compared with $100 for a gram ofpowder cocaine in 1986-- meant that almost anyone could afford it.President Ronald Reagan signed the Anti-Drug Abuse Act in late October 1986. Thefollowing week, the Democrats took back the Senate. Over the next two decades,the federal prison population would grow from about 38,000 to more than 200,000;more than half the current inmates are drug offenders. The average amount ofcrack that federal offenders were convicted of trafficking in 2006 was 51 grams,about the weight of a candy bar; their average prison sentence was 10 years,according to the Sentencing Commission."If we were sophisticated in the metric system, we would have known that thepeople we're interested in, like [Colombian Pablo] Escobar, are moving a ton, amillion grams," Sterling said. "Are we winning the war on drugs? No. The federalgovernment is wasting the resources."THE YEAR AFTER LEN BIAS DIED, Mike Short's team at Northwestern won the statechampionship. He and his teammates stormed the court at the University ofMaryland's Cole Field House in jubilation, and some leapt for the rim and heldon, shattering a fiberglass backboard. Their joy signaled intense relief. It hadbeen a tough season, with rival players mocking Jay Bias over his brother'sdrug-induced death and Northwestern players fighting back. Several had beensuspended.Mike, a sophmore, wasn't among them, but in his senior year he was cut from theteam over "differences of opinion" with a new coach, he said. His mother metwith teachers and administrators, who offered to reinstate him, but Mikerefused. "It's my fault for being angry like that, holding resentment," he said."That's something that still haunts me."He switched to pickup games on street courts in suburban Maryland, where drugdealers and athletes mingled like mismatched dancing partners. Dealers wouldsometimes hand out money to winning players or buy them clothes. People noticedMike's skill and started paying him as much as $500 to play in high-stakesgames, he said. He knew drugs were illegal, and his training as an athletedissuaded him from using them. He says he never tried cocaine and only smokedmarijuana once. He didn't need money. "But then some of us would see how easy itis, and it's hard to turn down $1,000 or $2,000 when you don't have to doanything," he said.His dealing began with casual conversations with people from school, theneighborhood and guys he met on the courts. He wasn't asked to do much -- mostof the time, he just made a phone call or delivered a package, often to peoplehe knew and trusted -- and dealing became part of the fabric of his social life.He would go bowling and meet someone else in the business, or arrange a handoffto a friend at a local barbershop. He bought himself stylish new clothes, but hedidn't buy a car because he worried that his mother, Shirley Short, would catchon. Even so, when he showed up in a pair of $100 tennis shoes that she hadn'tbought for him, when his friends parked their own flashy cars outside, sheguessed the truth. About a year before Mike got arrested, his mother told him tostop. He didn't see why he should."I was like, Man, it's just too sweet of a deal," he recalled. "There's noviolence involved. Why not sell it, make my $500, and go on about my business?"The violence that was invisible to him was apparent to anyone who read thenewspaper or had the misfortune to live in one of the impoverished urbanneighborhoods favored by street dealers. In 1989, Washington had 434 homicides,more per capita than any other U.S. city. But Mike didn't frequent open-air drugmarkets, and he told himself that the cops weren't looking for someone like him.I'm a peon, he thought. They want the guys who are selling thousands andthousands of dollars' worth.And then he walked into their cross hairs.The investigation that put him in prison, like the law that kept him there,began with Bias's death. In 1987, Brian Tribble, a former Maryland student andfriend of Bias's, went on trial for supplying the cocaine that killed thebasketball star. A former player testified that he and three others, includingTribble and Bias, snorted about one-third of a cup of powder cocaine the nightthey were celebrating Bias's ascension to the Celtics.Relying heavily on the testimony of former teammates who snorted cocaine withBias and a 17-year-old with an extensive juvenile record who said he had soldlarge amounts of cocaine for Tribble, prosecutors built a case that they lateracknowledged was largely circumstantial. Tribble was acquitted, the jury foremanexplained after the trial, because prosecutors failed to present evidence beyonda reasonable doubt that he had any connection to the drugs that killed Bias.Tribble wept when the verdict was read, but his success in beating the chargesvaulted him to superstardom in the local drug-dealing community, said J. AndrewMcColl, the lead FBI agent on the investigation that led to Mike's arrest."Brian was Mr. Teflon," McColl said. "Nobody could touch him."In 1988, the D.C. police and the FBI went after Tribble, who was working with anetwork of dealers in the Woodridge neighborhood in Northeast. The FBI plannedto have undercover agents supply the dealers with cellphones in exchange forcrack cocaine and to record their conversations. At the time, cellphones wererare and expensive; you needed good credit to get one, something most drugdealers didn't have.A few days before Christmas in 1989, an undercover FBI agent showed up tocollect a monthly cellphone payment in crack from a dealer named Norman Brown.Brown told the agent to drive over to his "man" and collect the drugs. On thisday, his man was Mike Short. Mike handed the agent a paper bag containing 63grams of crack cocaine. The agent gave him $1,800.In 1990, after a two-year investigation, federal authorities charged Mike, then19, and 28 others with selling powder cocaine and crack as part of a sprawlingdrug ring. Nearly two decades later, McColl called Mike "a very minor player."Mike said he had never been suspended from school. Unlike some of hiscodefendants, he had worked steadily, including helping his father at MattressDiscounters in Langley Park.Meanwhile, Brian Tribble agreed to cooperate with authorities in exchange for areduced sentence. He pleaded guilty to conspiracy to distribute powder cocaine,admitting that he and associates had sold more than 110 pounds of drugs in an18-month period. He was sentenced to 10 years, almost exactly half the length ofMike's crack sentence of 19 years and seven months. In addition to the 63 gramsMike handed to the undercover agent, the court held him accountable for helpingto distribute another five kilos of crack, based on witness testimony, whichadded considerably to his sentence.AFTER HE WAS FREED, MIKE RETURNED TO WASHINGTON ON THE NIGHT OF DECEMBER 18,2007, on a Trailways bus from West Virginia, wearing a prison-issue sweat suitand a denim jacket that whipped in the wind. He had ridden since morning,staring out the window, too anxious to sleep. He felt like everyone was lookingat him, like they all knew that he had just been released from prison.He was released just ahead of a stream of crack offenders expected to get out anaverage of two years early under changes enacted last fall by the SentencingCommission. About 20,000 federal crack inmates will be eligible for thereductions over the next 30 years. The largest number -- about 1,400 -- weresentenced in the Eastern District of Virginia; 279 were sentenced in Marylandand 269 in the District.On average, they are male, black and 35 years old, a profile that Mike fitalmost exactly, and many will return to neighborhoods scarred by drugs. TheAnacostia halfway house where Mike would spend the next six weeks sat acrossfrom a rundown apartment complex on a desolate street. It was called HopeVillage, but he quickly sized up the neighborhood. "You would find your choiceof drugs around there, easy," he said.He had been behind bars for nearly 16 years, most of it in Petersburg, Va. Hismother had died in 1997, and he had gone to her funeral in his khaki inmate'suniform, chained at the waist and ankles, escorted by corrections officers.Mike's father, whom he had seen periodically over the years, also attended thefuneral, along with Mike's brother, sister and nephews. His father sometimesvisited him in prison, and the two developed a closer relationship, though theywere never as close as he and his mother had been.At first, he was angry -- at the people who'd testified against him, at thegovernment and at his lawyer. Having never been much of a churchgoer, he blamedGod. Then somewhere along the way, he grew tired of the repetitive drone of hisown rage. "I didn't want to come out of prison being bitter, hating anyone," hesaid. "I wasn't raised like that, and I didn't want to come home like that."Vowing not to waste a day, he earned an associate's degree in businessmanagement and worked long hours in a prison business office."Why did you go to prison for so long?" Mike recalls his nephew asking when hevisited. "Did you kill anybody?""I sold drugs," Mike told him."But you haven't been home since I been living." After a while, he stoppedasking.Another visitor began making the 2 1/2-hour trip from Washington to see him,first with Mike's sister, then on her own. Vanessa Bolden was 5-foot-2, withsmooth chestnut skin and the righteous toughness of a woman who had been workingsince she was 16 and now owned her home and drove a sleek blue Lexus. She andMike had started dating a few months before he was convicted, but neitherthought it would last. She was a 31-year-old single mother with her ownapartment and a job at the U.S. Customs Service. He was 21, living with hismother and going to federal court every day for his trial on drug charges.Vanessa and Mike would go to Hains Point or Rock Creek Park and drink Heinekensand talk. Sometimes they would sit in her car in front of his mother's house,listening to the radio and laughing. If he was nervous about going to prison,she never guessed. "I never had no idea that they would give him 1,001 years,"she said.In the prison visiting room, she was impressed by what she saw. "He startededucating himself; he started reading a lot, getting a lot of knowledge," shesaid. After receiving his management degree, Mike earned his personal trainercertification and completed courses in nutrition and plyometric training.Vanessa and Mike exchanged letters and talked on the phone. Their relationshipbegan to shape Vanessa's life. She watched her girlfriends fall prey to cheatingmen. She would hang out with her brothers or go to a happy hour, but shewouldn't let a man buy her a drink. Mike was her excuse. When she went out, sheimagined he was at the table next to her. "I always thought Mikey was watchingme," she said.By the time his release date neared, she was going to see him nearly everyweekend, getting up at 5 a.m. on Sundays and driving all morning to sit next tohim in the crowded visiting room and hold his hand. "I was like, 'What is wrongwith me?'?" she said. They talked for hours about their families, their future.When Vanessa woke up troubled in the middle of the night, she would write tohim. "He'd write me back and make me feel better. I was like, Damn, if it wasthat simple, why couldn't I figure it out?"In 2002, he applied for executive clemency, which is one of the few remediesavailable to federal prisoners sentenced to mandatory minimums because there isno parole in the federal system. A year earlier, President Bill Clinton hadhanded out dozens of last-minute pardons and commutations. One of the recipientswas Mike's codefendant and childhood friend Derrick Curry. In recentadministrations, clemency has become rare. Bush has approved only sixcommutations since taking office, fewer than any president except his father,who served only one term.Mike's petition, including letters from prison officials, his sister and familyfriends, landed in the Office of the Pardon Attorney in early 2002. It wouldtake more than five years to reach the White House, just three blocks away. Atfirst, his request seemed headed for denial, according to documents. Three yearspassed before then-Pardon Attorney Roger Adams sent a letter to the U.S.attorney in Baltimore and to Judge William Nickerson, who had presided overMike's case, asking them to weigh in on his clemency petition.A veteran judge, Nickerson had long been frustrated by the sentencing guidelinesthat took discretion out of the hands of judges. Mike's case had bothered himfor years, so much so that it contributed to his decision to stop handling drugcases. Mike and his codefendants were kids from hard-working families who "kind of got sidetracked," Nickerson said. "It made itdoubly tragic to ship them off to jail." When it came time in 2005 to offer anopinion on Mike's clemency petition, Nickerson endorsed it.Two years later, on December 11, 2007, the White House announced thecommutation. It had been so long that Mike had forgotten he had applied. Hisunit manager found him eating lunch in the prison cafeteria."Are you Michael Short?" he asked."Why?" Mike barked. He assumed he was in trouble, though he knew he had donenothing wrong."Relax," the unit manager told him. "You got immediate release."Mike's face broke into a smile. "Oh, really? Can I leave right now?"When Vanessa learned that he was coming home early, she found herself trembling."I didn't know what kind of man he really was, as far as living with him," shesaid.The night he arrived, he climbed into her car. They sat side by side, just thetwo of them in silence. She glanced over at him, wondering if this was for real.WHEN HE GOT OUT OF THE HALFWAY HOUSE THIS PAST FEBRUARY, Mike moved intoVanessa's three-bedroom house in Charles County. Golden cherubs hung on thewalls in the bathroom, and a stuffed anteater with a pink ribbon around its neckoccupied the overstuffed living room couch. After the constant noise of men andcells, Vanessa's house was quiet and strange. Mike didn't like being alonethere. After so long in prison, he felt awkward most places. At the mall, hestumbled when getting on escalators. Electronic gas pumps bewildered him.Vanessa rolled down her window to help: "Baby, push that button over there."He and the other inmates had fantasized about running the streets when they gotout, but Mike found that he didn't even want to leave the house. He and Vanessatalked on the phone a dozen times a day. On Valentine's Day, he made steak andshrimp fried rice and laid roses on their bed. He cooked her breakfast andpacked her lunch -- a ham-and-cheese sandwich, a granola bar, a peach. He moppedand vacuumed, washed clothes and painted the laundry room.In his last years in prison, they had almost broken up when he told her hewanted children. She was in her late 40s and had already raised a son. "I'm notstopping you," she told him then. "But, if you want to do it, then go do it. Ican't be a part." When she stopped answering his calls, he repented. "I want todo the right thing," he said. "I want to make her happy."Now she called him "my blessing," "my heart." He said she was his perfect soulmate. They went to a jewelry store to look at rings and cuddled in the kitchen,sipping Sutter Home rosé while their dinner warmed in the oven. "He is not theaverage guy, 'cause the average guy's not cooking all that for you," she said.Mike ordered business cards and printed his résumé, which listed hisassociate's degree, training and nutrition certificates, as well as his workexperience in prison. He applied for jobs at several big health clubs, handingover copies of his commutation bearing the president's signature. When one ofthe gyms turned Mike down, a supervisor who believed in second chances put in agood word for him. Two weeks later, Mike got the job.He wanted to work seven days a week. "I have the energy and the motivation forit right now," he said, "and I need the money."He said nothing to his co-workers and clients about his past, but one day,during a training session, a client asked if he had been in prison. "I knew it,I knew it," she said when he told her. She was a corrections officer. Mike'sbiceps, swelled from years lifting weights in a prison gym, had given him away.ON THAT DAMP, GRAY TUESDAY IN FEBRUARY, Mike stood amid the marble columns ofthe Capitol Rotunda and dialed Vanessa's number on his cellphone. He had spentthe morning meeting with a congressman and walking beneath crystal chandeliersand elaborate archways, past a portrait of Joseph Hayne Rainey, the firstAfrican American elected to the House of Representatives. Mike had grown up afew miles from the Capitol, but he had never been there. Now he told Vanessa howbeautiful it was.Shortly after Mike left the halfway house, an advocate from Families AgainstMandatory Minimums, a group that lobbies for fair and proportionate sentencing,asked for his help. Members of Congress had proposed a handful of bills toreduce or remove the sentencing disparity between crack and powder cocaine, andFAMM wanted Mike to tell his story on the Hill.He was working long days at the health club, and he couldn't afford a suit towear to the hearing, but felt he owed it to the men he had left behind inprison. By now, even some legislators who had voted for the 1986 mandatoryminimum laws expressed regret. One former supporter, Sen. Joseph Biden, aDemocrat from Delaware, had recently told the Senate Judiciary Committee thatthe sentencing disparity could not be justified: "Our intentions were good, butmuch of our information turns out not to be as good as our intentions."It is true, medical experts say, that crack is more addictive than powdercocaine; smoking and injecting offer quicker routes to the bloodstream thansnorting, and the faster, more intense highs lead to an increased rate ofaddiction. But statistics have not borne out fears of widespread violenceassociated with crack. In 2005, only 6 percent of powder cocaine offenses and 10percent of crack offenses involved violence or a threat of violence, accordingto the Sentencing Commission. The predicted "crack babies" did not materialize,either. Although some early studies of individual children suggested that crackhad devastating effects on fetuses, long-term case studies showed that alcoholis more dangerous to a fetus than any form of cocaine, including crack, and hasaffected a far greater number of children, said Harolyn Belcher, aneuro-developmental pediatrician and director of research at the Kennedy KriegerInstitute's Family Center in Baltimore."This was one of the few times when [Congress] really rushed to complete andformulate the sentencing before the science was really there," Belcher said.Over the years, some lawmakers had tried to lessen crack penalties, but thepolitical moment had never been right. Then, last fall, the wind seemed to beshifting. The Sentencing Commission, which had long criticized the disparity,proposed the guideline changes that made thousands of crack offenders eligiblefor reduced sentences. Two Supreme Court rulings allowed federal judges ameasure of freedom in drug sentencing, permitting them to exercise greaterleniency if they felt the circumstances demanded it. And amid it all, Bushcommuted Mike's sentence.After the morning practice session and lunch in a congressional cafeteria, Mikeentered the hearing room, calming his nerves and distracting himself from whatwas coming by replaying in his head a basketball game he had seen recently onTV. The cameras from C-SPAN swiveled toward him and the other witnesses seatedat a long table planted with microphones. Mike was the only one without a lawdegree.Rep. Bobby Scott, a Virginia Democrat who chairs the House Judiciarysubcommittee on crime, terrorism and homeland security, banged the gavel. He hadproposed a bill to close the disparity, and he urged members of Congress to helpend "two decades of legal discrimination.""There is certainly no sound basis for a five-year mandatory minimum sentencefor the mere possession of five grams of crack, when you could get probation forpossessing a ton of powder," Scott said.Judge Ricardo Hinojosa, chair of the Sentencing Commission, ran down thestatistics. In 2007, he said, crack sentences were about 50 percent longer thanpowder sentences. "The commission believes there is no justification for thecurrent statutory penalty scheme for powder and crack cocaine offenses," hesaid.In the weeks before the hearing, Attorney General Michael Mukasey had spokenforcefully against the Sentencing Commission's decision to make the guidelinechanges retroactive, saying that "nearly 1,600 convicted crack dealers, many ofthem violent gang members, will be eligible for immediate release intocommunities nationwide." Gretchen Shappert, U.S. attorney for the WesternDistrict of North Carolina, had come to present the Justice Department'sposition.She said that her career had been "defined by the ravages of crack cocaine." Shespoke about open-air drug markets, people sleeping in bathtubs to avoid straybullets, dealers recruiting kids to sell drugs. "We continue to believe that avariety of factors fully justify higher penalties for crack offenses," Shappertsaid. "It has been said, and certainly it has been my experience, that whereaspowder cocaine destroys an individual, crack cocaine destroys a community."Mike listened, the muscles in his forehead tightening. He sipped his water. Whenit was his turn to speak, his voice was low and scratchy. "To be clear, I knowthat what I did was wrong," he read from his prepared testimony. "I sold illegaldrugs, and I deserved to be punished. But what I did and who I was did notjustify the sentence I received . . ."I have heard some of the comments some people in positions of power have madeabout crack cocaine prisoners -- that we are violent gang members and that thisis why our sentences have to be so much longer. I am not that person, and mostof the people that I leave behind in prison aren't, either."When the testimony was over, Scott asked whether it was true that many offenderseligible for reduced sentences were already nearing the end of their prisonterms."Many of them, that would be the case. Mr. Short's situation is not unique,"said Reggie B. Walton, a federal judge in Washington who was seated a few chairsdown from Mike. "And I think it's just a waste of the taxpayers' money to keepsomebody like Mr. Short locked up for as long as he was locked up. I'll be thefirst to tell him that he should have been punished. But to keep somebody lockedup for as long as we kept him locked up, who could have come back into thecommunity and been a positive contributor to society, I think is a loss to thecommunity where he comes from."People in the audience began to clap, and then, like a dam breaking, Mikehunched his shoulders and burst into tears.MIKE STOOD BEHIND THE COUNTER at the health club in Greenbelt. It was a MarchSaturday, one of the busiest days of the week, and he was the only one there.This was his chance to score new clients and build experience, and he had beenlooking forward to it.A woman approached him. She told him she wanted a personal trainer, but only ifhe could promise her that she would lose 20 pounds by May. In prison, Mike hadbecome something of a moral hardliner. He knew some trainers who would havetaken her money and told her what she wanted to hear, but he wasn't one of them."First and foremost, I'm not going to promise you nothing," he says he told her.It would depend on how disciplined she was during her workouts, he explained,and what she ate when she wasn't at the gym."Well, how much is it per hour?"The sessions were priced in packages, not by the hour. He looked for acalculator."You ought to know that!""Miss, I don't work in sales. I'm a personal trainer.""Well, I want to talk to somebody else.""You are free to talk to whoever you want to talk to."She turned and stormed out, Mike said.When he walked out to the parking lot at the end of his shift, Mike thought, Idon't need any more days like this. But the truth was, apart from computerglitches and the occasional cranky client, Mike loved being a personal trainer.The main problem was money. He had hoped to make from $12,000 to $18,000 in hisfirst six months of freedom, and he was nowhere close. He was paid $15 for eachhour-long training session, but the club took nearly three times that much."It's robbery," he said. "You getting paid peanuts for doing all the work."His first paycheck had been for $17, but recently his biweekly pay had risen to$266. He quickly spent it on gas, an oil change, fixing a punctured tire andpaying his and Vanessa's cellphone bills. He had planned to take over theirshared bills one by one, paying them in ascending order until they were sharingcosts equally. But on this day he had $15 in his bank account.His framed training certificates still hung on the wall in the downstairs recroom, but he felt his dream slipping away. Vanessa paid every time they wentout. He tried to make up for it by cooking and cleaning, but he had his pride."It's got to be something better than this," he said.One morning in March, he didn't get up to make Vanessa breakfast or pack herlunch. "I'm tired," he told her. He rolled over and slept until after she hadleft for work. A little later, frustrated and near tears, he sat at thecomputer, searching the Internet for openings at Safeway, Giant, FedEx and thepost office. "I just got to be patient," he told himself, his voice breaking.That afternoon, he was washing dishes in the kitchen when Vanessa called to saythat she would be home soon, and she was starving. She asked him to put somesalmon in the oven, and maybe make some rice."What kind of rice you want me to make, Vanessa?" he asked."Baby, when you talk like that, I know you don't want to do it."Mike laughed. "You trying to read me through the phone now?" He took the fishout of the refrigerator."Get to cooking, man. I'm hungry.""Relax already. I got you."A few minutes later, she called back. "Do you miss me?""Only on Thursdays and Saturdays. I don't miss you today.""All right, don't forget you have to heat the oven up first and then let thatfresh salmon cook for 30 minutes."Mike had already put the fish into the oven. "Are you going to let a true playerdo this, or what? Please!"He had learned to cook and clean from his mother. She assigned him and hissiblings chores, but because Mike was an early riser, he often ended up doinghis brother and sister's chores as well, he said. In Vanessa's house, he wouldturn on the music and lose himself in the repetitive strokes of a mop on a tilefloor. Cooking also relaxed him.He had been playful on the phone, but after he hung up, his mood darkened. Hetook down a box of cornbread mix and buttered a pan. He wore long nylon shorts,a sleeveless T-shirt and black slippers. He seemed too big for the room, withits cloth lilies in a pot by the sink."I don't normally curse," he said. "I know I [expletive] up. I should have neverwent to prison . . . I know that this is not where I should be at this point inmy life, 36 years old, struggling. I shouldn't."He was making his mother's macaroni and cheese. He poured the pasta into abuttered pan, shook on black pepper, laid on slices of cheese and poured milkand eggs over the top.Outside, the neutral-colored houses with their slate blue and burgundy shuttersstood quiet in the middle of the day, their numbered parking spaces empty. Heand Vanessa were going out that night, and he hadn't found another job. "BeforeI know it, I'll have to go back to work tomorrow." He sighed. "I didn't evenreally do nothing."MIKE'S CONCERNS ABOUT MONEY SEEMED BLISSFULLY REMOTE as he climbed a flight ofstairs at the Verizon Center one Saturday in March and settled into thesecond-to-last row to watch Duke play West Virginia in the NCAA basketballtournament. He had dreamed of going to an NCAA game since he was a kid, and nowhis friend and codefendant Derrick Curry, who also had been freed bypresidential decree, sat beside him.Derrick wore a gray sweat suit and ate fried chicken off a cardboard tray, andMike leaned forward expectantly as they waited for the game to begin.Mike had been a Duke fan since he was 13. He despised West Virginia. He hadspent the last year of his prison sentence in the state, which had noprofessional team, and corrections officers cheered raucously for their collegeplayers."I hope we beat them by 50," he said.West Virginia dominated from the start. A Duke player sped down the courtheading for the hoop and missed."He can't shoot," Derrick said."He can't shoot," Mike agreed. "A wide-open shot there! No guard. He's supposedto make that."Mike leaned forward, hands crossed at the wrists, palms on his knees. As peopleshuffled past with trays of pretzels and kettle corn, West Virginia scoredagain. Mike shook his head. A Duke player dribbled the length of the court, roseto the basket and fumbled the shot. "Please, man!" Mike yelled. "I don'tunderstand! That's unreal, man!"The game went on, but Mike furrowed his brow. If anyone understood theconsequences of a missed opportunity, it was him. As he and Derrick sat in theVerizon Center, Congress was considering seven bills that would reduce or removethe sentencing disparity between crack and powder cocaine, but other issues tookpriority: the teetering economy, the presidential race, Gen. David Petraeustalking about the effects of the troop surge in Iraq. It was, and still is, hardto know when or whether anything would change.When the clock ran out, West Virginia had upset Duke, 73-67, in the day's firstgame. Mike had been paid on Friday, but he rolled his eyes as he handed over $5for an ice cream. On the way back to his seat, an usher eyed his cone. "It'sgood," he told her, "but it cost too much." As Purdue and Xavier chased eachother in the second game, Mike and Derrick sat as silent as boys absorbed intheir ice cream, biting into the cones wrapped in paper sleeves decorated withstars and stripes.THE SKY WAS STILL DARK WHEN MIKE LOCKED THE DOOR of Vanessa's house behind him.He wore black pants and a long-sleeved white shirt and lugged a large gym bagand a gallon jug of water. In the burgundy Nissan that Vanessa had lent him, henavigated the streets at a crawl, flashing his turn signals even though theneighborhood was deserted. The prospect of a routine traffic stop filled himwith dread. Given his record, he worried that even a minor violation might endwith him face down on the asphalt surrounded by dogs.It was just after 4 a.m., and a thin crescent moon hung overhead. Mike likedthis time of day, before the sun rose and rush-hour traffic clogged thehighways. The soul classic "Natural High" played on the radio, and he leanedback in his seat and stared out at the dark road.He was on his way to a new job that promised everything he'd hoped for when heleft prison. A week earlier, he had quit his job at the health club. His newemployer, Getem Tight Fitness, rented a mirrored ground-floor studio in anexpansive home in a Prince George's County subdivision of mansions andlandscaped lawns.Mike was making $25 an hour to train a small but dedicated clientele, almosttwice the rate of his previous job. For once, his past had not hurt him. Thegym's manager, Richard Gartmon, had spent 10 years in prison on federal moneylaundering and fraud charges. He and Mike had met years earlier in prison, andMike got the job right away.The streets were silent as he pulled into an empty cul-de-sac and switched offthe engine. A few minutes later, another trainer parked beside him. Mike liftedhis bag and water jug from the trunk and followed her down a brick walkwaybehind a nearby house.Inside, he greeted his first clients, a handful of smiling, middle-aged women inblack workout suits. Red and green mats went down on the wood floors, and theiPod speakers blared Gwen Stefani. Mike changed into a shiny new Adidas shirtand pants that Richard had given him and stood at the front of the room to leadthe day's first exercise class."Feet together, hands together, rotate to the right first," he called, spinninghis torso. He didn't smile, but the furrows in his brow faded, and his faceshone. He led the class through leg raises -- "Do not let the feet hit theground!" -- and minute-long side-plank exercises that left several womensweating and groaning. One collapsed on her mat."Stomach on fire?" Mike asked."Yes!" a woman called out."That's what I like."A man named Ray Smith stepped uncertainly into the gym, guided by his wife. Achurch deacon and an operations manager for a law firm, he had recently lost hiseyesight to diabetes. Mike turned the class over to another instructor and, withan arm around Ray's waist, gently escorted him to a weight room in back."We did 10 pounds last time, right?" he asked. Ray nodded. Mike carefully placedthe weights in the older man's hands and counted under his breath. "Good, good,"Mike told him. "Fantastic."His next client was a man with a shaved head and a peace sign tattooed on onemuscled arm. Mike strapped on weightlifting gloves and worked out alongside him.A 38-year-old owner of a legal services company, Darnell Self sweated at thepull-up bar. "Keep pushing!" Mike told him. "Two more. Good money, man, goodmoney!"They did one-arm rolls, Darnell lifting 50 pounds, Mike 65. The room grew hot,the mirror fogged. Mike loaded weights onto barbells. Darnell looked doubtful."That 90's not for me," he said. "I mean, one day I think I'll be there . . .""My bad," Mike told him, switching the weights. "I normally work out with 120."Darnell picked up the barbells, grimacing. "Do it till it burns," Mike told him."It's already burning.""That's how you do it. You're going to have forearms like Popeye."Darnell groaned and dropped the weights. He stood panting."Last set," Mike told him.Finally, Darnell laid the weights down. He tried to clasp Mike's hand, but hewas too weak. "I was like a girl, man," he said, laughing. "I couldn't evenreally give you five."Outside, the sun had risen. Mike stepped onto the brick walkway. Years ago,before the big houses came up, he and his brother used to drive out here with acarload of friends after the movies. It was all woods then, and they wentjoyriding and chased one another through the trees screaming about Jason, thehockey-masked killer from "Friday the 13th."Now he stood still, gazing into the trees. There was no escaping the past, norany way to separate the crooked pathways of his own personal history fromwhatever lay ahead. It was 7:36 a.m. The next wave of clients would be theresoon. Mike turned and walked back into the gym.Vanessa M. Gezari is a writer who lives in Washington. She will be fieldingquestions and comments about this article Monday at noon at washingtonpost.com/liveonline.