October Surprises just aren't what they used to be.Carnival barker and Mitt Romney surrogate Donald Trump (R-Absurdity) set thegossip mill churning this week when he declared he would make a "majorannouncement" about President Obama. "It's very big - bigger than anybody wouldknow," he told Fox News Channel.Would it be the bombshell revelation that Obama sold cocaine in college? Thediscovery of divorce papers for the president and the first lady?A betting house set 250/1 odds that Trump would prove that Obama is from anotherplanet, and 500/1 odds that he would announce that he is Obama's father. Thedisclosure that Obama is not American was a relatively safe bet, at 2/5 odds.But Trump surprised them all by announcing . . . absolutely nothing. Instead, hereleased at high noon on Wednesday what had the look of a ransom video, in whichthe Donald himself, appearing puffy and unwell, played a character that was partDr. Evil, part Crazy Eddie."I have a deal for the president, a deal that I don't believe he can refuse,"Trump announced, leaning forward and chopping the air with his hands. "If BarackObama opens up and gives his college records and applications and if he giveshis passport applications and records, I will give to a charity of his choice .. . a check, immediately, for $5 million! The check will be given within onehour after he releases all of the records so stated."And if you act now, Mr. President, Trump will include an extra added freecomplimentary bonus gift at no cost to you!In a singsong voice, Trump teased the president with possible charities thatmight interest him - "inner-city children in Chicago, American Cancer Society" -and repeated his terms: "All he has to do to get fivemillion dollars . . . "This was trumped up even by the Donald's self-aggrandizing standards.Denunciations and derision rang out from the political left, right and center.The bookmaker that took bets on Trump's bombshell refunded the wagers. The realestate mogul had managed to make his real announcement resemble the Onion'sspoof article: "Donald Trump announced that he is a very sad man who has nothingto live for other than drawing attention to himself."One beneficiary of Trump's bust was the publicity-seeking lawyer Gloria Allred,if only because it made her own October Surprise seem somewhat more newsworthyby comparison. She went to court Wednesday with the ex-wife of one of Romney'sformer business associates as part of an effort to unseal testimony Romney gavein a 20-year-old divorce case.Allred's client is alleging, according to the celebrity gossip Web site TMZ,that Romney lied when he testified during her divorce from Staples founder TomStemberg. Romney, whose Bain Capital backed Staples, allegedly testified thatthe office supply chain was worth little, so the ex-wife lost out. (AMassachusetts judge is expected to hold another hearing on the matter Thursday.)Even if true, the Allred surprise seems little more likely to shake up thepresidential race than Trump's histrionics.The only true October Surprises this year have been executed by candidatesthemselves - and they aren't what you'd call happy surprises. The latest belongsto Richard Mourdock, a Republican candidate for Senate in Indiana, who onTuesday said abortion should be forbidden in all cases because "I think evenwhen life begins in that horrible situation of rape, that it is something thatGod intended to happen."Romney's campaign distanced itself from Mourdock's sentiment, and Sen. KellyAyotte (R-N.H.) canceled an appearance with him. Mourdock, a tea party candidatewho already was in jeopardy of losing what had been a safely Republican seat,attempted to clarify his views Wednesday, saying he opposes "any kind of sexualviolence."Mourdock's remarks put him in the undesirable category of Todd Akin, theRepublican Senate nominee in Missouri who squandered an easy win in August whenhe asserted that "legitimate rape" rarely causes pregnancy. But Akin had alreadyunveiled an October Surprise of his own: comparing his opponent, Democratic Sen.Claire McCaskill, to a canine."It's a little bit like one of those dogs, you know 'fetch,' and she goes toWashington, D.C., and gets all of these taxes and red tape and bureaucracy,"Akin said on Saturday.Akin's campaign spokesman, Rick Tyler, later tweeted that McCaskill's breedwould be a bull Shih Tzu - but he spelled it differently.Surprising, but wrong. We already have had a dog of that variety this campaignseason, and his name is Donald Trump.danamilbank@washpost.comFor more Washington Sketch columns, visit washingtonpost.com/milbank.