In  a far corner of the Vatican, there is a marvelous suite of vaulted spaceswhere only pontiffs and the occasional art historian now get to stroll. Once,however, artists and connoisseurs would flock there from all over. In the yearsaround 1517, Raphael and a dream team of assistants had covered these papallogge  with a sprawl of decorative detail that's almost psychedelic. Twistinggarlands sprout infants' heads and sphinxes' bodies before morphing intofantastical gazebos and pavilions, which then spew out every kind of bird andbeast. Raphael's garlands took off from Roman paintings found preserved ingrottoes underground and also took their name from them: They became"grotesques," and the word has come down to us to cover all the unnatural,extravagant absurdities we've since seen in art and life.Last weekend, in a minor miracle of contemporary curating, New Yorker RobertStorr opened the fifth Santa Fe biennial, titled "Disparities and Deformations:Our Grotesque." Storr's show, held at a contemporary art center called SiteSanta Fe, channels the unnatural elegance of Raphael's Vatican decor, almost 500years after the Italian master's death. At Site's invitation, Storr has broughttogether 53 contemporary artists whose works speak to one another, and to howthe ancient notion of the grotesque pans out today.The biennial is one of a handful of big contemporary-art surveys held in theUnited States. Usually these events feel like agglomerations of whatever the artworld counts as new and hot, or of some curator's all-time favorites. Storr'sversion, however, comes off as a tightly coherent, almost scholarly affair.There's not much new to see in it, except Storr's novel optic.Storr started out as a painter and critic, became a leading curator at theMuseum of Modern Art and recently moved on to the prestigious Institute of FineArts at New York University. His biennial, attractive and focused and brainy allat the same time, shows off his skills as aesthete, curator and art historian.The artists in "Our Grotesque" include several of today's younger stars: Storrgot Kara Walker to do her first video for him, and he's brought in work by JohnCurrin, Lisa Yuskavage and Douglas Gordon. The show also features establishednames such as Jeff Wall, Bruce Nauman and Cindy Sherman, as well as oldishmasters Jasper Johns and Louise Bourgeois. But you could say that veteran popdraftsman R. Crumb is at its heart. His bizarro illustrations have beeninfluential since the 1960s, when he brought us Fritz the Cat, Mr. Natural andhis famous "Keep On Truckin' " strip.A wall of recent Crumbs, mostly doodled onto paper place mats from the artist'sfavorite pizzeria, shows his artwork pretty much unchanged. He gives us goofysurreal drawings that, as always, make the whole world look as though it's madeof Play-Doh and badly needs a shave. The spirit of Crumb -- charmingly weird, àla Raphael, rather than horrifically grotesque, in our modern sense -- lives onin a lot of this show's art.There are a few works that have close ties to Crumb's psychedelic wit: Canvasesby Peter Saul are almost painted versions of Crumb's cartoon aesthetic; tiny,frantically detailed oils by Mark Greenwold have the same Haight-Ashbury punch.There's more than a crumb of Crumb in the weirdly morphing wooden shapes thatElizabeth Murray covers in cartoonish paint, and in Carroll Dunham's painting ofa comically explosive sun that rains blobs onto a clapboard cityscape.Ask around at art schools and you'll hear that a good many of their prospectivestudents submit portfolios of wacky doodles. The grotesque has clearly trickleddown so far that it's become the norm when art is meant to impress. Weird andcomic transformation is the order of our day, right across the spectrum from artschool to art gallery.At Storr's biennial, we often get this metamorphic style at its best.German artist Thomas Schutte gives us a distinctly high-art version of peculiarshape-shifting. His eight-foot-tall "Big Spirit" figures, cast inmirror-polished bronze, look like the Michelin man in an early fetal stage. Twoof Schutte's figures stand in the exhibition's largest space, where their goldensurfaces reflect the strange paintings hanging all around them. They somehowseem to stand for all us viewers: Dazzled by Storr's show but made wobbly by it,too.In a piece called "Softy," American video artist Tony Oursler takes Schutte'sstatic goopiness and makes it move. A chest-high biomorphic blob, like a giantmelting marshmallow, has bits of a disjointed yellow face projected onto it.This grotesque head mouths whiny platitudes at us, as though it doesn't evenknow that it's all out of whack.And then there's a cut-paper sculpture by another American, Tom Friedman, whosetechnique is as refined as art can get, the better to convey his gross-outsubject matter. Working in brightly colored construction paper, Friedman cutsand folds and wrinkles it to build a life-size self-portrait -- which shows theartist's crumpled body after a fall from a great height, surrounded by a pool ofpaper blood. Wile E. Coyote never had it this bad.The extreme refinement of Friedman's gory piece gets at a crucial paradox inalmost all the works in this exhibition, and maybe in the grotesque as a genre.Despite weird, even disturbing content, there's a distinctly decorative feel tothe whole thing. There's as much pleasure and fun in this show's gestalt asthere is angst.Storr has done such a beautiful job installing works in the show's airywarehouse space that he's softened any edge they might have. Which makes for aperfect parallel to Raphael's un-grotty grotesquery: Raphael injectedstrangeness into his grotesques to give exquisite ornament a bit of tooth,rather than to truly give pause to passing clerics. His sphinx-headed ivy andplant-footed babies aren't the focus of his decoration; they're subordinatecomponents of it. In Storr's show, likewise, there are only a few moments whenyou're tempted to pull a single troubling work out of the larger ornamentalsprawl that's all around it.Projected video, since it requires its own darkened space and concentratedviewing, gets us to do just that.To make a video called "Horror Chase," Brooklynites Jennifer and Kevin McCoybuilt a copy of the set for a chase scene in the film "Evil Dead 2." They shot apanicked actor running through the set, as in the film, and then cut the footageto make a seamless loop. A computer controls the screening of the piece,randomly  rejiggering the camera angles, moving the action forward and runningit backward, speeding up the chase and then slowing it down again, so that thepoor actor's flight never ends and never repeats itself, either. The piecepoints out the extreme artifice involved in any horrific imagery. And by sheerrepetition and manipulation, the McCoys invite us to become inured to it. Theyinvite us to go from being bloodthirsty voyeurs to being removed connoisseurs ofhow the action works. (A clip from the McCoys' piece, along with other imagesfrom "Our Grotesque," are available at www.washingtonpost.com/museums.)Another projected video, by African American artist Kara Walker, is the onlywork in the whole biennial that manages to transcend the grotesque's ornamentalroots. If you buy Storr's notion that Goya, with his horrific scenes ofnightmare and war, follows in the tradition of the grotesque  that took off withRaphael -- and I'm not sure I do -- then Walker is the Spaniard's only heir inthis show.In the works that made her famous, Walker took the elegant silhouetted figuresof Enlightenment art and used them to build pictures of the nightmare world ofslavery. In her new video, she's given life to these same figures as marionettesin a racial horror show. In the eight harrowing minutes of "Testimony: Narrativeof a Negress, Burdened by Good Fortune," we watch as the tables are turned inthe antebellum South, with enslaved blacks becoming owners of rich whites. Thenewly empowered slaves first use their former owners, then abuse them, until the"cartoon" ends in an Armageddon of lynching and rape. The action is captured inthe style of primitive black-and-white animation from early last century. Andthat makes you feel that it must have been crafted by a strange and twistedmaker from the heyday of lynchings, rather than by a sophisticated artist oftoday. The piece reads as a kind of horrific found artifact, rather than as aslick and clever work of contemporary art. It feels powerful and real, ratherthan contrived and ornamental. (A portion of Walker's piece is also at www.washingtonpost.com/museums.)When Raphael and his Renaissance pals reinvented the grotesque, they weren'taiming for the effects that Goya  and Walker have achieved in it. Thestrangeness they built into their work was meant to serve a larger effect ofgracious elegance and stylish ornament. It even underscored that elegance bygiving it something to push against. Raphael's grotesque was a sheep in wolf'sclothing. The weirdness found in "Our Grotesque" mostly works in the same vein:An image of Cindy Sherman posing as a rotting head, or the distortions of anOursler or a Crumb, are moments of delicious wickedness emerging from a mass oflively decoration.But there's also a crucial difference between today's grotesque and the Vaticanexample. Raphael's grotesque was ornament that crawled around a center ofsubstantial art. His garlands were comic relief for the framed religiousnarratives that they surrounded in the logge and that filled the great receptionrooms that led off from that space.In the contemporary grotesques on view in Santa Fe, the oddities are set offonly against the elegant, empty expanses of the biennial's modernist white cube.But then, maybe that hints at this art's missing center of gravity: The cleanlines and white walls of the warehouse, left undisturbed by Storr, stand for allthe sober abstract art that this work isn't, and that it has deliberately putaside. Our current grotesque revolves around the officially important modernwork of the 20th century, as represented by the grand traditions of the Museumof Modern Art -- where Storr used to work and whose refined aesthetic underpinsthe hanging of his current show. Our grotesque is trying to break free of thatart's pull.Like Raphael's version, today's grotesque is comic relief -- but relief from agrand seriousness that few of us buy into anymore.The grotesque once worked as a lively antidote to the high order that ruledeverywhere else in art. Now all that order's gone, but we're still asked toenjoy its cure.