In recent decades, most of us have watched our workplace became more tolerant,less biased, more sensitive to differences of ethnicity, gender, age, religionand sexual orientation. American laws changed to reflect our greaterenlightenment as a society. Some still resist out of anger, ignorance or evil.But, in our time as in most ages, we've watched incremental progress arrive.Industries change at different paces. But the NFL lags by a generation. Profootball needs to transform its workplace and finally join the rest of us. Ifthe experience of millions of us, including my memories of the turmoil innewspaper sports departments 40 years ago, is an indication of what's in store,the NFL workplace will shift as much in the next five years as it has in thelast 50.Whether the issue is vicious hazing of NFL rookies, or trouble accepting anopenly gay player, or the league's lies and cynicism in hiding its knowledge ofbrain damage to its ex-players, time is finally up. It's the two-minute warningfor a commissioner who's been an NFL man half his life.Even nicknames give away the NFL mind-set. Where else would a billion-dollarbusiness proclaim that it will "NEVER - you can use caps" change a name and logothat offends many, including plenty of its own customers. When the wind shifts,all the leaves blow the same direction. A nickname, in the bigger scheme, is aleaf.You can be on the wrong side of history for decades, then in a few years - andthe last few months have brought all these issues into the open or into focus -find yourself a victim of that history if you don't change in time. A pointcomes when things are finally called by their proper names.A day always comes when intolerance is no longer tolerated. The time arriveswhen sadistic malice, rationalized as brotherly "bonding," is no longer allowed.And eventually our courts rule against decades of lies about employee healthissues; then corporate stonewalls are reduced to rubble.Recently, three names in the news have highlighted ways in which the NFLenvironment is ridiculously, comically behind the rest of American society:Richie Incognito, Michael Sam and Judge Anita Brody.As revealed in the NFL's own 144-page report this month, Incognito is thebully-in-chief among Miami Dolphins players and coaches who viciously hazedseveral young players with sexual taunts about their female relatives, racialslurs, inappropriate touching and homophobic insults."He looks like he's about to cry 24/7," Incognito wrote, describing one of hisvictims in a text to a Miami assistant line coach.The coach replied, "Hahahaha. He's gonna go crazy one of these days."Makes you want to line up for an NFL autograph, doesn't it?The problem isn't Incognito. Apparently, he just continued a Dolphins tradition.According to the Miami Herald, lineman Nate Garner texted to bullying targetJonathan Martin: "Hey bro if u need to talk to anyone I'm here for you. I havebeen dealing with this (bleep) for 6 years. I hope ur doin ok." Like theStanford grad Martin, Garner was ostracized because he dared to show he had abrain: He liked computers and electronics.Into this world Sam, the all-American linebacker from Missouri, will soon step.The NFL is, officially, breaking its back to salute his "courage" for comingout. But is Miami really the only franchise hostile to gays?The NFL has become so concerned about tolerance that its competition committeeis considering a 15-yard penalty for discriminatory language on the field. Someof that stems from an incident last season involving a racial slur used againstAfrican Americans in a game. Perhaps it's a useful coincidence that such a rulemight arrive in Sam's first season.But more than any of its many recent scandals and embarrassments, Judge Brodymay shake the league to its core. Last month, she threw back the NFL's $765million concussion settlement with its retired players. When ex-players acceptedthat class-action settlement, some analysts said it was many hundreds ofmillions too low to cover everyone who might deserve payments. The ex-playerswere getting old; the NFL lawyers could fight them until they were in theirgraves, so they took what they could get.Brody said nuts to that. A class of 20,000 players might be qualified forsettlements of $3.5 million for Parkinson's or $5 million for amyotrophiclateral sclerosis, commonly known as Lou Gehrig's disease. What about playerswho killed themselves after suffering from chronic traumatic encephalopathy (alifetime of football hits in the head)?If even 10 percent of 20,000 deserved payments, who said $765 million wassufficient? You guessed it: The NFL did. Or their "economists" did.And what actual proof did they provide to Brody? "No such analyses were providedto me," she wrote. "In the absence of . . . evidence, I have concerns about thefairness, reasonableness, and adequacy of the Settlement."Millions of us could testify to how fast a workplace alters when the tides of aculture finally shift. I offer mine simply because parts of the sportsdepartments of 40 years ago were typical of countless workplaces of the time. Asa copy boy on the lobster shift until 2 a.m., what I observed was no worse, butno better, than countless other workplaces - like openly discriminatory jokes.One night the departing editors jammed the youngest reporter into a narrow coatlocker as they left at 2 a.m. A night watchman heard him screaming and let himout. Nobody was scolded - just hazing.What stunned me was that these old-timers had no idea they were an endangeredspecies that would soon be swept out of The Post and the profession. Once acultural corner is turned, the new direction is established at amazing speed.The NFL culture is dug in deep. When Sam came out, national TV commentatorscongratulated him and then, without knowing what they were saying, characterizedhis action as "admitting" he was gay.An ex-NFL head coach wondered if teams might avoid drafting Sam because mediaattention would make him a "distraction." That coach is an African American;would he have said that the '47 Brooklyn Dodgers should have paused to considerwhat a "distraction" Jackie Robinson would be?My advice to the dinosaurs of the NFL would be the same that virtually everykind of American workplace has learned: Change or disappear.Progress doesn't just arrive. It also erases.thomas.boswell@washpost.comFor more by Thomas Boswell, visit washingtonpost.com/boswell.