The NCAA's  444-page manual contains no language directly addressing appropriatepunishment for concealing information regarding child sexual abuse. But in lightof the shameful conduct of Penn State's leadership, revealed Thursday in theFreeh report, the  NCAA must use its authority to do what's needed now: shutdown the Nittany Lions football program.If the Freeh report released Thursday is accurate in its assessment of theuniversity's role in the worst scandal in college sports history, then theengine that enabled longtime child sexual predator Jerry Sandusky must beswitched off, at least temporarily.The good news is that the NCAA is at least examining what its role should be inthis horrific mess.The organization is awaiting Penn State's response to a November letter sent byNCAA President Mark Emmert, in which Emmert requested answers to questions"concerning compliance with institutional control and ethics policies." The keymatter for the NCAA to determine is whether its authority to punish for "lack ofinstitutional control" is as applicable to egregious criminal behavior as it isto providing extra benefits to teenagers.If the NCAA expands the term's traditional definition, it could severely punishthe football program and athletic department. What  happened at Penn Stateshould be included under the umbrella.The Freeh report, compiled by a team of investigators led by former FBI directorLouis Freeh, ishighly critical of coach Joe Paterno, university president GrahamSpanier, athletic director Tim Curley and vice president Gary Schultz.The four men, according to the report, failed to act despite havingopportunities to confront Sandusky, Paterno's longtime lead assistant, over 14years. They displayed "total disregard" for the children being victimized bySandusky, and Paterno - whom Freeh repeatedly portrayed as the group's mostpowerful figure during a news conference Thursday - lied about what he knew,when he knew it and, according to e-mail correspondence, advised against a planto report one of Sandusky's crimes witnessed by an assistant coach.Freeh determined the officials' incomprehensibly poor decisions stemmed fromtheir desire to avoid  negative publicity that could damage the school and theprogram. Penn State's "culture of reverence for the football program" led itsmost senior leaders to put protecting the program ahead of protectingunderprivileged boys, many of whom lacked father figures, from a child rapist.The football-driven culture at Penn State is so warped that the school's currentleadership should act to obliterate it without a NCAA mandate. It has happenedbefore.Disgraced by its prominent men's basketball team, the University of SanFrancisco canceled the program for three seasons in the early 1980s. The schoolwas widely applauded for being the first to shut down an out-of-control programin a major sport.Southern Methodist University missed an opportunity to join them. Throughout the1980s, SMU football players were better compensated than many in the NFL. TheNCAA shuttered the program during the 1987 and '88 seasons, making it the onlyBowl Subdivision team to get the so-called "death penalty."Because no NCAA bylaws have been violated in the Penn State matter, many of theschool's supporters argue the NCAA should stay out of it and let the criminaland civil courts hand down justice for the victims. That was Paterno's point ina letter released just this week. "This is not a football scandal and should notbe treated as one," the coach contended.The NCAA's rulebook is heavy-handed. There are extensive guidelines prohibitingrecruits from accepting so much as a T-shirt. The NCAA dictates how much contactcoaches can have with players - and when such interaction is permitted. Majorviolations can lead to athletes losing eligibility and teams being banned frompostseason competition.In writing its rules, however, the NCAA could have no more anticipated the PennState scenario than the framers of the U.S. Constitution could have envisionedfreedom-of-speech issues related to the Internet. That's why new laws arewritten.Undoubtedly, the NCAA will discuss how to revise its manual to address theoff-the-field atrocities Paterno and others ignored. But as Freeh correctlypointed out, many of Sandusky's crimes occurred in the football team'sheadquarters close to Paterno's office. They were committed by a man who playeda major role in helping Penn State become a national football power.This is actually one of the biggest football issues the NCAA has ever faced.Paterno is the most important figure in Penn State's transformation from aregional agricultural school into a nationally recognized research institution.The football team's emergence during his nearly 46 years at the helm drovefundraising efforts and provided the school's identity. The program and theuniversity's image are linked.With Sandusky jailed, Paterno gone and Penn State under new direction, somewould suggest there's nothing for the NCAA to gain by hitting Penn State withany Sandusky-related sanctions, let alone eliminating the football program for aperiod. That would hurt only the current coaching staff and players, they say.But virtually all NCAA actions against institutions are handed down after theperpetrators have left town; the point is to deliver messages to be remembered.The fire that both fueled Penn State's rise and ultimately led to destroying itsimage is still burning. It needs to be put out.No one should have to be reminded that protecting children is more importantthan preserving an institution's reputation. But if schools lose sight of that,as Penn State so clearly did, then the NCAA should throw the book at 'em.reidj@washpost.comFor Jason Reid's previous columns, go to washingtonpost.com/reidMoreJenkins: Truth is, Paterno liedRobinson: A coach's shameFreeh report will have a lasting impactJoe Paterno's only interview on Penn State scandalVideo: Joe Paterno speaks on the Sandusky scandalWhat is the impact on Joe Paterno's legacy?reidj