This week marks one year since Sens.  Joe Manchin  (D-W.Va.) and Pat Toomey(R-Pa.) formed their unlikely alliance to strengthen background-check laws ongun sales.Manchin was seeking a Republican to team up with after the school massacre inNewtown, Conn. So he approached border-state pal Toomey, and the two drafted amodest proposal that still enraged the National Rifle Association, and failed toget enough votes in the Senate, but did earn them a spoof on "Saturday NightLive," with actors  Jason Sudeikis  and  Bill Hader  as their stand-ins.A year later, it was Toomey's turn to ask for Manchin's help on backgroundchecks - not for guns, but for school employees. The Republican senator has beenpushing a bill that would require any school that receives federal funds toperform background checks on all existing and new employees, includingcontractors. There is currently no national standard.On Wednesday, the senators penned an op-ed in the Pittsburgh Post-Gazette abouttheir latest joint effort. The legislation was inspired by the 1997 murder of a12-year-old boy in West Virginia by a teacher who had been fired from aPennsylvania school for molesting a student.Though their shared causes are solemn ones, the two senators seem to enjoy theirfraternity.Toomey told the Loop: "Joe Manchin is interested in getting things done. Thisisn't the first time or the last time we will team up on bipartisan legislation.He is a strong partner in my effort to protect children from sexual and violentpredators."So the team's back together. But don't look for another "SNL" parody.Just a wee questionIt took a 6-year-old to leave  Hillary Clinton  speechless about her politicalplans.The former first lady, senator and secretary of state, who after Tuesday isofficially "thinking" about running for president, did not have an answer to afinal question from an elementary-schooler who inquired about the most pressingpolitical mystery - with a new twist."In 2016, would you prefer to be called Madam President or Mrs. President?" thegirl asked through a moderator at an event in Portland, Ore. (Yes, sticklers,2017 would be the year for such choices - but the kid is 6 and delightfullyprecocious.)Her question drew applause and laughter as Clinton sat smiling - but neveranswering. She leaned in toward the moderator and said it was a really goodquestion. As she got up to walk off stage, she paused, looked at the audienceand offered an exaggerated shrug.The Loop believes the young questioner has a promising future in politicaljournalism.In debt, but on timeFacing jail time does not come with a "Get Out of Campaign Finance Reporting"card.Disgraced former congressman  Rick Renzi  (R-Ariz.), charged with several countsof public corruption that included embezzling money from a family business tohelp pay for his first congressional campaign in 2002, filed his quarterlyFederal Election Commission report Wednesday. It shows him nearly half a milliondollars in debt.Renzi, who did not seek reelection in 2008, because he was under investigation,faces three years in prison. But he appealed the charges, and a federal courtagreed in February to let him stay out of jail during the appeal.Most of the debt is from personal loans Renzi made to his campaign committee,though he owes Patton Boggs $106,157 in legal fees. Renzi's campaign coffershave $1,244 left - little surprise, no campaign donations came in last quarter -so the lawyers probably won't see that money anytime soon.But the campaign got its 11-page report filed on time, so that's something.It's not uncommon for politicians to use their hard-earned fundraising dollarsto pay legal bills that result from their own alleged wrongdoing. In February,for example, New Jersey election officials said Gov.  Chris Christie  (R) coulduse his campaign money to pay back bills incurred in the bridge matter.Let's go to the videotape!Washington's latest sex scandal - involving newly installed Rep.  VanceMcAllister  (R-La.) and an aide - may seem just another in a long history ofsordid behavior on the part of congressional and administration officials. Butthis appears to be the first uncovered by actual video evidence.There have been photos, of course - for example, a selfie tweeted by then-Rep.Anthony Weiner  (D-N.Y.). Other scandals have included flirtatious e-mails, suchas those that led to the resignations of Reps.  Mark Foley  (R-Fla.) and  ChrisLee  (R-N.Y). And there was the spectacular video of President  Bill Clintonhugging  Monica Lewinsky  along a rope line of supporters greeting him on theSouth Lawn of the White House.But most often there are scarcely any photos of the two lovers together, muchless a videotape showing them, if not in flagrante delicto, then at leastseriously making out. The surveillance video allegedly shows the marriedMcAllister, with the back of his shirt out, and  Melissa Peacock , hisalso-married district scheduler, in an extended and most passionate embrace.And although there have been calls for McAllister's resignation (Peacock isalready off the payroll), the congressman told the Monroe News Star that heintends to run for reelection "unless there is an outcry for me not to serve,and so far there has been an outpouring of support."Well, people can surmount these obstacles. Remember that  Mark "The Hiker"Sanford , then the governor of South Carolina, told his wife he was on theAppalachian Trail when in fact he went to Argentina to be with his mistress.Last year, the Republican easily won election to the House.- With Colby Itkowitzal.kamen@washpost.comcolby.itkowitz@washpost.comThe blog: washingtonpost.com/intheloop. Twitter:@InTheLoopWP.