THE  regionNike half marathon set for SundayThe Nike Women Half Marathon is scheduled to begin at 7 a.m. Sunday.The 13.1-mile course begins on Pennsylvania Avenue at 11th Street NW, headsthrough the Mall, continues past the Washington Monument, crosses the ArlingtonMemorial Bridge, in both directions, and swings south to Hains Point beforereturning to Pennsylvania Avenue and 11th Street.Metrorail will open at 5 a.m. because of the race. The closest stops to thestarting point are Federal Triangle, Metro Center and the Archives stations.For a complete course map, go to washingtonpost.com/drgridlock.- Mark BermanMARYLANDLeggett rebukedover Metro letterMontgomery County Council members expressed displeasure Friday at CountyExecutive Isiah Leggett's decision to withhold the April 12 letter in whichMetro, citing construction defects, said it would not operate the Silver SpringTransit Center as planned.All nine council members signed a letter to Leggett (D) on Friday morning sayingthat he had violated a pledge to keep the council informed of importantdevelopments regarding the troubled project. The letter asks him to appearbefore the council Wednesday afternoon.The $120 million transit hub has been plagued by more than two years of delaysand tens of millions of dollars in cost overruns. Repairs are expected to beginthis summer, but no opening date has been set.Under a memorandum of understanding with the county, Metro is supposed to assumecontrol of the center and operate it as part of its system. But A. RichardTroup, Metro's  deputy general manager of operations, said in the April 12letter that even if construction and design problems are corrected, they willresult in unacceptable maintenance costs.- Bill TurqueProsecutors get more time in abuse caseA Montgomery County judge agreed Friday to give prosecutors until May 24 tocontinue investigating a popular fifth-grade teacher accused of sexually abusingfemale students at Meadow Hall Elementary School in Rockville.District Court Judge Gary G. Everngam accepted prosecutors' claim that theyneeded more time for the case, and both sides agreed to the new timetable.Timothy V. Krupica, 31, is accused of inappropriate behavior with four11-year-olds - fondling them on the outside of their clothes or, in some cases,forcing them to touch him.Krupica has pleaded not guilty, and the school's Rockville community has becomesharply divided by the accusations.- Donna St. George