I.Freetown:The Abduction of HelenAlpha heard banging at the gates of his family's compound, then gunshots. Helooked out a second-story window and saw the rebels. Some wore the combatcamouflage of Sierra Leone's disintegrated army. Some wore black jeans, knitpolo shirts, Tupac Shakur T-shirts. A few had wrapped their hair inhandkerchiefs patterned with the American flag. All of them wore red bandannasaround their foreheads. Adhesive strips patched their faces, as if they had beenscratched by angry cats. The strips masked incisions where the rebels hadingested cocaine, amphetamines or other drugs that wired their heads for battle.In eastern Freetown on Monday morning, January 18, 1999, a war that was at thatmoment the world's cruelest, as well as its most invisible, entered the parlorof the Jalloh family, where breakfast lay unfinished on a table in the center ofthe room. It was not easy to say why the rebels entered one house and notanother, but a faint air of prosperity hung over this gated compound on KissyRoad. Dalibeh Jalloh's nine children by two wives included the three sweet-facedsons now standing frightened by the window. The oldest was Alpha, 22, who tradedgold-plated watches he bought in Guinea, had a girlfriend, danced in Freetown'snightclubs, and who now listened as the rebels crashed through the last door andclimbed the stairs.They demanded money and Alpha's father handed over bundles. Gun barrels swung tothe three brothers. A rebel commander ordered them outside. Their mother sat ina chair before the unfinished food and wept. Their father begged: "Please don'ttake them. They are my children. Don't take them."Outside, the rebels forced them into line. They marched up a red clay road pastsmall shacks and shops toward green, grassy hills."We are going back to the bush," a rebel taunted, "but we are leaving somethingwith you."The brothers began to cry. The line of youths swelled with other abductees asthey walked. Some rebels told the boys their hands would be cut off and sentback to the democratically elected president of Sierra Leone, Ahmad TejanKabbah, as a symbol of the rebels' power. Others said the boys would be killed.The Jalloh brothers begged to be taken to the rain forest, where they could beindoctrinated as rebels and join the "revolution.""No, we are sending you to Tejan Kabbah. We are not taking you to the jungle."Two hundred yards up the slope they reached a school driveway. Before a metalgate stood a tall, thin rebel wearing black jeans, a black T-shirt and a redbandanna. Drug strips covered his face. The others called him Tommy. He held anaxe.A neighbor the boys knew as Sheikou went first. As rebels trained assault riflesat his head, he stretched on his stomach on broken concrete before the schoolgate and extended his arm.Tommy raised the axe high above his head and slammed it down. Once, twice, threetimes, four times. Sheikou's severed hand seemed to jump away from him.The line shuffled forward. Alpha, weeping and shaking, watched his youngerbrother Amadu, 17, stretch out his right arm.As Tommy raised his axe, Alpha closed his eyes.Helen jolted awake. "We've come!" she heard the rebels shout. "You thought wewere not coming back to the city! We're here!"It was three days later in a middle-class neighborhood up the slope from theschool gate, where the war would now force entry into the second-story apartmentof a salaried government bureaucrat and his 20-year-old daughter, Helen.Helen: an earnest student who radiates such energy and possesses such physicalbeauty that on the streets of some other capital, people might assume she wasfamous. She has a daughter by her boyfriend, Abdul. She lives at home in thewind-caressed suburban hills above Freetown, where she lounges with her dotingfather, and sneaks away with Abdul, and thinks about going into business, as sheand her girlfriends have sometimes done in small ways, trading shampoo and foodfrom an old metal shipping container across from a Catholic church.Helen, who, like Alpha, belongs to a generation of young Africans whose parents'ambitions have delivered them from rural poverty to urban aspiration. They havecome of age in a networked, electronic, globalized, syncretic era that for allits fractures manages to connect even to them. One world, ready or not, even inSierra Leone, which the United Nations describes as the poorest country in theworld. In Freetown, the Atlantic-washed capital, there is not a regular supplyof electricity or a reliable telephone system, but inevitably, there is afunctioning cyber-cafe, and the streets pulse with battery-powered hip-hop musicand generator-operated satellite news and the buying power of Western Unionmoney transfers sent by the tens of thousands who have made it to Europe andAmerica. A progressive generation of young and ambitious Africans, you might sayadmiringly, except that besides Helen and Alpha, it also includes Tommy and hisnihilistic brethren -- acronym-happy ex-soldiers and self-styled revolutionarieswho roam and sprawl across the continent, armed with Chinese- and EastEuropean-manufactured assault rifles, propelled by grievance, greed and a broadexperience of impunity."We are all internationalists now, whether we like it or not," British PrimeMinister Tony Blair said last year, explaining why the world intervenedmilitarily to stop paramilitary bloodshed in Kosovo (as it would later in EastTimor). Expanding global trade, satellites, the World Wide Web and humanmigration have combined to create "the beginnings of a new doctrine ofinternational community," one where "globalization is not just economic, it isalso a political and security phenomenon," giving birth to a world where "wecannot turn our backs on conflicts and the violation of human rights withinother countries if we want still to be secure." Acknowledging the obvious limitsof such a doctrine, however, Blair worried that "as yet . . . our approach tendstowards being ad hoc."Blair sought to measure his millennial ideas by the world's conduct in Kosovoduring the last year of the 20th century. But an African might want to measurethem against the world's conduct in Sierra Leone during that same year of 1999.A year when, on the night of January 21, eight weeks before the war began inKosovo, two rebels entered Helen's suburban apartment, roughed up her father andtold him that they were taking away his daughter.He begged them to leave her alone. "If you keep complaining, we're going to killyou," one of the rebels said.The next morning, her parents watched Helen walk at gunpoint up the hill,through the mango trees, past the Kissy Mental Hospital, toward the peaks thatpointed to the country's interior.Helen found herself walking with another girl from the neighborhood who had alsobeen abducted. The pair wept and begged to be released."I am a school-going girl," Helen said."I don't want to know," replied her captor, whom she would come in the monthsahead to know as Colonel Bloodshed.The rebels took them into the grass and raped them. Then they pushed them ontoward camp.II.Dawa:A Borderless WorldAt the spot on the world's maps where northwestern Liberia officially ends andeastern Sierra Leone begins lies a shell of broken concrete, the remains of asmall customs building burned in war. A village gate concocted from a tree trunkand rope marks the border crossing at Dawa. No government officials from eithercountry work here. There are only teenagers with assault rifles. They do notmuch care for passports or formalities.A man in a red beret steps briskly to our jeep and introduces himself as towncommander of the Revolutionary United Front, or RUF, Sierra Leone's fearsomerebel army. Two other rebels crowd forward, announcing themselves as "ChuckNorris" and "Rambo." Welcome, they declare sincerely.Behind us lies 30 hours of Liberian wonderland -- a sinkhole-filled, erodedjungle track that our Mitsubishi Pajero traversed at a bone-rattling,rock-slinging average of about 5 mph. A few miles ahead lies the RUF's baseheadquarters in the isolated rain forest town of Buedu. There we -- myself andWashington Post photography editor Michel duCille -- have been invited tointerview and photograph Sam "General Mosquito" Bockarie, the RUF's militaryleader. As much as any other person, he will decide whether Sierra Leone beginsthe new century at war or peace. In getting to know the general, we hope tounravel some of the mystery and meaning of Sierra Leone's violence.Our journey had begun six weeks earlier, over lunch at an elegant Frenchrestaurant in Georgetown. There I met a silver-haired Washington businessmannamed John Caldwell. He explained that he had been retained by the RUF, alongwith a Belgian partner, to handle certain business affairs for the rebels, whoseterritory includes most of Sierra Leone's coveted diamond mines. At my request,Caldwell asked the RUF for permission to travel to its base. The rebels agreed.They felt they suffered from poor public relations, in part because no Westernjournalists had ever visited their headquarters or traveled behind their lines.They wanted to convince the outside world that the RUF was not commanded bylimb-amputating psychopaths, but by revolutionaries with legitimate grievancesand political goals.For my part, I had been moved and frustrated by the violence against civiliansin Freetown earlier in the year. I wondered where this cruelty had come from,what purpose its perpetrators imagined. More than 10,000 people had beenmurdered, raped, abducted or maimed by rebels in a campaign of calculatedterror. In their vividness and gratuitous cruelty, the mass amputationsepitomized the powerlessness of ordinary Africans at the turn of the millennium.They also marked a climactic spasm in a grinding eight-year civil war shaped byfamiliar patterns. Outsiders exploited Sierra Leone's diamonds and otherresources. Neighboring nations sought advantage by interfering with internalconflicts. Post-colonial politics lay in ruins, felled by autocracy andcorruption. The international media paid little attention. And the great powersstood aside, numbed by Africa's wars and poverty. Finding money to haltaggression against civilians, build democratic society or even vaccinatechildren in a country like Sierra Leone had become a demoralizing, often futileendeavor in official Washington. Many Africans added all this up and sawsystematic racism -- a place in global affairs that reflected continuousdiscrimination and exploitation since the days of the Atlantic slave trade.That the unchecked amputations in Sierra Leone coincided with NATO's forcefulintervention in Kosovo only drew these frustrations to a sharper point. Ofcourse, the two conflicts took place in vastly different arenas. NATO'sintervention in Kosovo occurred in a place where the United States and Europeanpowers had deep strategic and military interests. They had no such interests inSierra Leone, other perhaps than the advancement of their values. But there wasmore involved in the comparison than the interests of governments and militaryplanners.In Kosovo, the middle-class status and racial features of the victims, as wellas echoes of Europe's Holocaust, allowed many Americans to empathize with theKosovars, to feel and imagine what happens when armies loose themselves oncivilians. The resulting popular outrage in the United States and Europe helpedensure the reversal of the expulsion of civilians by Serbia's government andbolstered plans to indict President Slobodan Milosevic and other responsibleSerbs on war crimes charges. But in Sierra Leone, outside engagement with thewar came to be dominated by pity-inducing, context-empty images of the limbless,whether in media coverage or during visits by politicians to Freetown'srehabilitation camps for amputees. These stripped-down, politics-free picturesof armless victims helped to consign Sierra Leone's war to the mental box manyAmericans reserve for Africa. Few understood, for example, that most ofFreetown's victims were as urban and middle class as Pristina's.The greatest contrast lay in the outcomes. The violent campaign againstcivilians carried out by rebel forces in Freetown last January not only failedto stir American and European governments, it set the stage for a UnitedNations-endorsed rebel triumph. Early last summer, as NATO declared victory inKosovo, West African nations, the United States, Britain and the United Nationsprovided diplomatic and financial backing for a peace agreement that deliveredamnesty to the rebels. The agreement -- called the Lome accord, after thecapital of Togo, where it was signed July 7 -- also gave the RUF several cabinetseats in a transition government, granted the rebels effective control over thenation's diamond mines, and invited them to join national elections next year tobe supported by U.N. peacekeepers. In other words, notwithstanding what happenedin Freetown last January -- or, rather, because of what happened -- the rebelsachieved something like victory.As we rattled among palms and through neck-high grasses along the clay trackinto rebel headquarters at Buedu, one question hanging over Sierra Leone waswhether the Revolutionary United Front really wanted the peace it had won. Ashaky cease-fire had prevailed since July between government and rebel forces,but clashes among rebel factions erup-ted regularly. The Lome agreement requiresall combatants to disarm under U.N. supervision and enter into rehabilitationcamps for schooling and job training. But the camps, especially in the forestareas controlled by General Mosquito, have mostly stood empty.Mosquito has been the focus of Sierra Leone's anxiety about whether peace willhold. Leading a force of more than 10,000 armed men, he was perhaps the mostfeared man in Sierra Leone. As the RUF's chief of defense staff, he was therebels' most prominent battlefield commander in recent years, the man in chargeon the ground while the movement's supreme political leader, a former armyphotographer named Foday Sankoh, languished in jail or in exile. Rarelyphotographed or seen in public, Mosquito moved like a shape-shifting spectraldemon around the country's rain forests, surfacing via satellite telephone toissue blood-curdling threats through Freetown media or the BBC World Service.Rumor and debate raged about his motivations and ambitions. What kind of countrydid he want? What role did he imagine for himself? Could he accept peace, or washe now so accustomed to jungle warfare -- so unable to imagine an alternativefor himself -- that violent "revolution," whatever that meant, had effectivelybecome his lifetime profession?In the answers to those questions lies the credibility of the internationalcommunity that bargained with Mosquito. In them too lies the future of SierraLeone, and part of Africa's future as well.III.Buedu:In Mosquito Country"I am a good-looking man, a big showman, I like good living," Mosquito declared,tilting to aim a menacing stare at the Egyptian colonel sitting beside him. "Canyou en-camp me!!?"No, the Egyptian allowed, it seemed unlikely that Mosquito would enroll in aU.N. rehabilitation camp. The colonel sat nervously with three other U.N.military observers in a circle of plastic chairs assembled in fading light on adirt lawn near the Buedu bungalow housing Mosquito's offices. The U.N. team hadturned up in confused circumstances late that afternoon at the town's westernentrance. They seemed to think they had been arrested.Mosquito sat center stage at this ambiguous tribunal, resplendent inquasi-military dress: a felt beret with two pinned stars, combat camouflage, asilver pistol and, around his neck, a medallion in the shape of Africa hooked toa shiny gold chain.For the past half-hour, he had declaimed about the failings of the UnitedNations in Sierra Leone and around the world. He complained bitterly that U.N.observers such as these four had been traversing RUF-controlled territorywithout his knowledge. He dramatically threatened to withdraw securityguarantees for U.N. personnel. He mentioned the commander of Sierra Leone's U.N.military observer force by name and threatened him with death.And then, after declaring, "We are ready to disarm, but it should be done in away that guarantees our security and provides something of what we fought for,"Mosquito told the officers they could go. They saluted and extended backpedalinghandshakes, jumped in their jeeps and sped west toward government-heldterritory.Mosquito had arranged this spectacle as much for our benefit as for the UnitedNations', it seemed. We had been in Buedu since early the previous morning, andincreasingly the place seemed a phantasmagoric theater.Our host was ebullient. He talked for hours about the war, the prospects forpeace, and his own life story, which involved his rise from professionalnightclub dancer and women's hairdresser to national revolutionary commander. Hebuzzed flamboyantly around town on an off-road motorcycle. He changed clothesfrequently -- safari suits, European designer wraparound sunglasses, the latestdesigner jeans and, for a family photo on our final morning, a smart charcoaldouble-breasted suit.He would pull up to us on his dirt bike, lean back on the seat, and makepronouncements in lilting English such as, "I am a military man and I don'tthink I can transform myself into a civilian. I will die as a soldier." Pause."Or I will retire as a soldier." Vroooooom . . ."You know," he observed delightedly during one long account of the war, "Ireally admire myself."Mosquito is a Big Man in a very small town. He delivered thumping speeches tohis men about his decision to live in the rain forest rather than in Freetown.He forswore political ambition. "I don't want to be minister. I don't want to bepresident," he told them. "All I want is to see this revolution through. But wewill not disarm until total revolution is achieved in Sierra Leone."Total revolution? And that would look like?The arid phrases of Moammar Gadhafi's Green Book, the Libyan leader's manifestofor "people's revolution," blew through Buedu like a bad wind. Free schooling,free medical care, an end to corruption, nepotism and tribalism -- these havebeen the slogans of RUF pamphlets and radio broadcasts for years. The rebels'themes successfully tap popular disgust over Sierra Leone's failed one-partypolitics after independence. They speak to a generation of rural young people --including Mosquito himself -- who never made it to Freetown, whose familieslacked the pluck or position to stake a claim in Kissy's suburban hills, and whofound themselves shut out by Sierra Leone's failed education system and corruptpublic sector.Yet as a practical matter, you could locate more socialist engineering inMontgomery County than in eastern Sierra Leone. War-ravaged RUF-controlledterritory is so poor that it is all most people can do to feed themselves fromsmall rice plots and fruit trees. The RUF appoints commanders to run towns andcities, honors traditional chiefs where they have survived, and lately has triedto work with foreign charities and citizen committees to develop socialservices. But the forests remain a desperate subsistence economy.Confident theories of national revolution rang out noisily in Buedu nonetheless.Most startling was the ideological fountainhead of one Martin Coker, "personalassistant to General Mosquito," who told us he had lived in the Washington,D.C., area for much of the 1990s.We first heard the improbable, clipped tones of Coker's middle-class Britishaccent as we unpacked ourselves from our jeep upon arrival in Buedu. "Goodmorning!" declared a tall, polite man holding an official-looking bundle ofpapers. "Welcome to the defense headquarters of the Revolutionary United Front!"Born to an elite Freetown family, Coker attended school in Britain and thenmigrated to America, where he developed a business putting up ceilings in majorD.C. area office buildings -- including, he said, CIA headquarters in Langley. Aneo-Marxist as well as an entrepreneur, he listened regularly to WPFW's PacificaRadio talk shows and fed his revolutionary yearnings at leftist bookstores inDupont Circle. In 1997, some sort of spiritual crisis -- he said it involvedportentous dreams, his faith in God, and a belief in the urgency of a people'srevolution in Sierra Leone -- caused him to return to Africa. There he presentedhimself unannounced as an intellectual who wished to serve the RUF. He wound upat Mosquito's base camp.Coker ran the general's satellite telephone, television and radio systems;helped to write Mosquito's letters to RUF colleagues, the United Nations andforeign heads of state; maintained a computer room; and helped to supervise"Radio Freedom, voice of the People's Army of Sierra Leone," an FM station inBuedu that Coker said was paid for with a particularly fine diamond, and whichwas now broadcasting rap music and RUF messages across the country's easternforests.Delighted to have his hometown newspaper visiting Buedu, Coker asked about theWizards' prospects (poor, we admitted) and became our effusive guide to theRUF's nascent revolutionary society. Intelligent, articulate and plagued byrecurring malarial fever, he seemed a tropical, slightly unhinged version of oneof those political commissars the Soviets used to place on their nuclear-armedsubmarines -- feared and influential, but vulnerable to fragging.Arrayed along a dirt track and made up of perhaps 100 homes, Buedu teemed withyoung men carrying assault rifles. Some of them were "recruits" captured inbattle, taken from their families and indoctrinated in RUF ideology. Theseincluded boys no older than 14 who belonged to the feared "Small Boys Unit," orSBU, notorious in Freetown for carrying out grotesque acts of violence. InBuedu, the boys typically worked as household help for senior commanders. Cokerarranged for us to interview several, even as he railed against the West'scriticism of "child soldiers." Elitist human rights activists fail tounderstand, he explained, that in a people's army, families must move together"on the front lines" -- husband, wife, children all fighting the people's wartogether.As Coker listened, the boys told us how pleased they were to be RUF volunteers-- they could hardly have said otherwise in the circumstances. But in recitinghow they were captured in battle and separated from their families, nostalgicemotion sometimes reached their throats."I have a family I've left behind, but I'll stay with this family until it'stime to look and decide," said Corporal Jonathan Phillie, contemplating hisfuture if peace holds. He was only in sixth grade when he was captured by theRUF three years ago; he does sometimes think about a world beyond Buedu. "I wantto be a doctor," he said. "It's a blessed job."IV.Buedu:At the CrossroadsOn our final night at RUF headquarters, we sat with Mosquito in a dark concreteroom and talked for hours about his past and future, tracing a journey thatholds many threads of West Africa's crisis.He never knew his father, quit school at 19 and struggled as a diamond miner,sometimes supporting himself as a nightclub dancer. "I was fed up with SierraLeone." He migrated to Monrovia, the capital of Liberia, where "a lady convincedme to try to learn to be a beautician. I was not easily convinced to do the workat first because I thought it was women's work. I was feeling impoverished, andshe led me to a salon, and it impressed me. A whole apartment with a hall andpassages . . . all wall-to-wall carpet. I saw a young man standing over somehigh-ranking women and I said, 'No problem, a good-looking man like myself, Ican do it.' "Mosquito paused. "Even now, I can do any hairstyle."Like many among his generation, he thought of aiming for Europe or America. Hetook courses that would qualify him as an electrician. He had an ambitious plan:to move to Abidjan, the relatively prosperous West African capital of the IvoryCoast, do electrical work and become a beautician in a parlor frequented "byhigh government women." He would then seduce and cajole his way to France. "Thatwas my big plan -- to jump to Paris and become the person about whom people say,'He's the top man.' "Then civil war erupted in Liberia. "I think if the war hadn't happened, I wouldhave been somebody in Paris by now," he reflected. "I would have changed myposition [by now] to London or maybe the United States." Instead, he startedhanging out with Liberians who were gathering arms and volunteering for combat.He heard about a plan to recruit Sierra Leoneans to start their ownrevolutionary force. He traveled abroad to what he would only call "anundisclosed location" (almost certainly Libya) for extensive classroom andcombat training. At revolution school he met Sierra Leonean politicaldissidents, including Foday Sankoh. Together they formed the RUF in 1991. "I wasnot recruited. I recruited myself." He began to read the Green Book and, "Ibecame interested in this, that these are some of the things that man can do."I asked about his battlefield leadership of the RUF's war and the terribleviolence inflicted on civilians. He had been waiting for questions about humanrights. As he prepared to answer, he pulled his pistol out of his jeans pocketand set it on his thigh. It seemed an instinctive gesture."I don't believe in innocent killing in the field," he replied emphatically.Through his satellite and Internet connections to global news, it became clear,Mosquito had studied in some depth his potential problems under war crimes law.He criticized Mary Robinson, the U.N. high commissioner for human rights,because she had suggested that RUF commanders might eventually be subject toprosecution, despite the Lome accord's amnesty. He insisted that he, personally,had only executed men under justifiable circumstances -- to enforce martial lawor prevent desertions. "I have no outlaw record," he said. "If soldiers haveraped, I have executed them. If soldiers have dropped arms, I have disciplinedthem. Those are the only two crimes I have committed."What about the dozens of boys and young women in his own camp who had beenabducted and recruited by the RUF? "We don't force people to join," he answered."When we capture these girls, we encourage the young people to join," and theydo, voluntarily.He claimed that he had never ordered amputations of civilians. He saidex-soldiers allied with the RUF, but not directly under its command, wereresponsible for the worst atrocities in Freetown in January. (Human rightsinvestigators say those ex-soldiers probably did carry out a large proportion ofthe violence, but that RUF combatants also carried out amputations, killings andabductions.) Mosquito accused government militias of carrying out amputationsand then blaming them on the RUF. (We met amputees in Buedu who told crediblestories of being tortured by the government militias. New York-based HumanRights Watch accuses the militias of human rights violations, but says abuses bythe RUF and its allied ex-soldiers have taken place on a far greater scale.)Once the amputations began, Mosquito said, each side retaliated against theother. "It started as a revenge. If some have done it to your relatives, youwill go back and do this. To boys who had their hands cut . . . when you seethis with your own eyes, you want to take revenge on their families."Mosquito tells his men he is protected from bullets by magic powers. As wetalked late into the night, he stood and stripped off his shirt to show scarsacross his shoulders and arms -- from bullets that have bounced off him, hesaid. He pulled down his jeans to show similar wounds on his thighs.Yet the longer he talked, the more it became clear that, superpowers or no,Mosquito at 35 lacked a convincing vision of his own future. Last spring, hesaid, Lebanese intermediaries working for the U.S. government offered him $ 2.5million to leave Sierra Leone and settle peacefully in Nigeria. He said he askedthe negotiators to bring the cash to the Liberia-Sierra Leone border. "I wasgoing to ambush them, deal with them ruthlessly and spend the money on arms," hesaid. They refused to come. Afterward, he told that story repeatedly to hisfollowers and vowed never to be bought off. Still, as the night wore on, hetalked wistfully of Paris or America, even though he knew he would be vulnerableto arrest in such places. Other times he talked of his desire to lead SierraLeone's army after the next election. And then, over and over, he waved his armsand threatened angrily to retreat from Buedu to the rain forest and start thewar all over again. If he were provoked by the United Nations or Freetown'sgovernment, he said, "I'm envisaging another serious battle in Sierra Leone. Itold all my men to clean all their barrels and wait."V.Buedu to Koidu:The Best IntentionsFreed blacks and white Christian abolitionists in Britain and America createdSierra Leone as a new, enlightened "Province of Freedom" in 1792. Since then,the export of American and European values to this stretch of the West Africancoast has been a sorry, violent, hypocritical business.Like Liberia next door, Sierra Leone owes its existence as a modern nation-stateto international humanitarian law, at least as it was understood by British andAmerican reformers in the late-18th and early-19th centuries. Abhorring slaverybut unable to imagine a multiracial society at home, British idealists conceivedof Freetown as a homeland for free but impoverished black populationslanguishing in Canada and London. The former included Jamaican Maroons, who hadwon their freedom in revolt, and American blacks who had been freed from slaveryto fight with Britain during the American Revolutionary War but were thenshipped off to freezing Nova Scotia when the redcoats lost. Later, Britishopponents of the Atlantic slave trade began seizing slave vessels on the highseas and freeing their human cargo in Freetown's harbor. Few of these freedslaves could figure out how to get home again, so Sierra Leone became a meltingpot of African cultures and tongues from as far south as Angola.Even as we plunged into the interior, my Jamaican-born colleague, Michel, couldunderstand much of the local creole, which contains phrases and inversionsclosely related to Jamaican dialect. It felt odd, amid such dense forest, tohear the linguistic residue of such a long, tangled history of Westernexploitation and reform -- although no more odd than it was to encounterMosquito's satellite-downloaded globalism."Open the arsenal!" our host declared dramatically on our final afternoon inBuedu, as his men loaded supplies into a "Mad Max" special, a dented Toyotapickup equipped with several boxes of rocket-propelled grenade shells, half adozen grenade launchers, an equal number of cans of sardines (for sustenance,not defense), a dozen cans of beer and soda, and a last-minute gift fromMosquito himself, a three-quarters-full bottle of Irish cream liqueur. Thepickup would also carry us, an RUF colonel, two other commanders, one of ourLiberian police escorts and, in the truck bed, all of our luggage plus eightbodyguards armed with assault rifles. I liked our chances in an ambush, butwondered if the potential for spontaneous combustion had been underestimated.Our plan was to travel the length of RUF-controlled Sierra Leone, from the farnortheastern corner of the country, through diamond territory and finally to theprovincial town of Makeni, about 100 miles from Freetown. We set out late in theafternoon. Our driver popped in a cassette and Kirk Franklin's "Revolution"rocked from the speakers as we raced down a grassy track. Half-empty smokyvillages appeared every few miles, ragged and visibly impoverished, a sharp fallfrom the more prosperous impression of RUF headquarters.These eastern forests have borne the brunt of Sierra Leone's tragedy for nearlya decade. When Gadhafi and Liberian warlord Charles Taylor launched the RUF inthe autumn of 1991, hoping to rattle their enemies in Freetown's government, itwas here that the original band of 100 cadres, including Mosquito, firstattacked government outposts and enrolled recruits. There has been little letupsince.The RUF's most significant early achievement was to stimulate a coup inFreetown. A 28-year-old army captain, Valentine Strasser, who had grown tired ofbattling the RUF without a regular paycheck, marched to the capital with some ofhis men and demanded their salaries. Sierra Leone's president -- heir to anundistinguished line of undemocratic politicians -- panicked and fled. Strasserdecided that, well, since the office was vacant, he would appoint himselfpresident. It was a measure of popular desperation that this Lord of the Fliesgovernment of twentysomething junior officers initially received a warm welcome.Four years later in 1996, Britain and the United States persuaded the junta toleave by offering the novel inducement of scholarships and stipends to studyabroad at the universities of their choice.The grim statistics of Sierra Leone's sliding life expectancies and ballooningrates of child mortality are compiled in eastern towns like Pendembu, where weslept our first night out of Buedu. There is little food distribution or medicalservice of any kind behind RUF lines. The government cites security concerns andsays the RUF won't cooperate. The RUF says the government is starving it ofservices to weaken the rebels' political base. The braver internationalcharities, such as Doctors Without Borders, make occasional forays into theeastern forests. (Mosquito kidnapped two Doctors Without Borders volunteers lastmonth, releasing them unharmed days later.) But refugees lured home by reportsof peace find essentially a wasteland. Only the bounty of the rain forest --particularly its fruit trees -- prevents a famine."We are all tired of the war now," our host in Pendembu, RUF Colonel VindeyCosi, told us. "Whenever the leader says we should disarm, we will disarm. Butwe are waiting for an order."We saw the problem the next morning in Daru: empty tents flapping in the wind inan open field between an RUF checkpoint and a government barracks, manned byNigerian soldiers who serve in effect as Sierra Leone's army. The tents had beenerected to receive disarming RUF combatants under the Lome accord and torehabilitate them for new lives in peacetime. But under Mosquito's orders, nocombatants had yet arrived.We had to cross government lines at Daru to traverse the only bridge over thewide Moa River that could handle our truck. That afternoon, pointed north towardthe diamond mines, we entered dense, empty forest. In silence we cut throughswamp, grasses, palms, mango groves and soaring hardwood giants. Streamscrisscrossed the track every half mile, and we slid across bridges strapped fromlogs, rocks and the occasional steel beam. Flowering plants and fronds obscuredthe sky. Spiders and dragonflies as big as fists splashed into the cabin as wecrashed through puddles three feet deep.Apparitions of poverty or war flashed by periodically: a boy no older than 11standing sentry, an AK-47 strapped to his shoulder; disheveled families innearly empty villages, cooking over smoky fires; two boys carrying rice bags whofled into the bush when they saw our heavily armed vehicle.We limped at dusk into Koidu, rocking on two flat tires and a snapped shockabsorber, headlights gone. Once we realized where we had at last arrived, thestreams we forded acquired a new allure. In the pinkish half-light, you staredat the stones and sand and wondered what a rough diamond might look like.Koidu and surrounding Kono District are the prize that for generations has luredcolonizers, mercenaries, bandits, prospectors and revolutionaries to SierraLeone's interior. After slavery, its outpouring of diamonds has been the sourceof the country's greatest misery and exploitation. Scraped over by thousands ofgreedy hands, the region no longer ranks among the world's better diamondfields, but it still yields enough to fire imaginations and fuel the schemes ofcrooks, killers and politicians.Around a bend loomed the abandoned, rusting hulk of a mining complex built a fewyears before by a private corporation of South African mercenaries whose 1995intervention in Sierra Leone's war marked a strange nadir. Too busy partying inFreetown to contain the bush-disciplined RUF, Strasser's twentysomething juntahired Pretoria-based Executive Outcomes, a private company, to fight its war.Strasser paid $ 15 million and a share of Koidu's diamond concessions to thefirm, which was led by retired white officers from the notorious apartheid-era32 Battalion of the South African special forces. Executive Outcomes staged alightning triumph, using attack helicopters, artillery and well-paid blackAngolan and Namibian troops to push the RUF from Freetown's outskirts all theway to small enclaves in the east. The mercenaries secured Kono, erected amassive defense perimeter around the diamond areas, laid anti-personnel minesthrough the forest, and settled in to start digging out their reward.The success of Executive Outcomes set in motion the events that led ultimatelyto the horror in Freetown last January. The twenty-something junta went back toschool. The appearance of stability created by the mercenaries led to peacetalks with the RUF and a proposal for free elections. But the accord quicklyfell apart. The RUF complained that elections were being rushed before it couldorganize as a political party; the government complained the RUF was not seriousabout peace. The United Nations pressed forward with the vote early in 1996,declaring it would not be held back by the rebels.The eventual winner, a former U.N. official named Ahmad Tejan Kabbah, campaignedon the slogan "The Future Is in Your Hands." Some Sierra Leoneans believe thiselectoral slogan helped give birth to the country's cycle of amputations. Duringthe campaign, RUF rebels began cutting off civilians' hands to "send them back"to Kabbah in a grisly reply to his electoral speeches, according to human rightsinvestigators. Still, tens of thousands of ordinary Sierra Leoneans risked theirlives to vote. Witnesses said that in places such as the southern town of Bo,the vote went forward almost as a popular uprising against the rebels.But soon after Kabbah took office, some former army bodyguards to the Strasserjunta seized power -- angry because they had not also been offered scholarshipsabroad. Calling themselves the Armed Forces Revolutionary Council, they invitedthe RUF to join their new government. RUF rebels entered Freetown openly for thefirst time, squatting in federal ministries and looting vigorously in a programdubbed "Operation Pay Yourself." Freetown residents went on strike and refusedto cooperate with the new regime. West African governments, the United Statesand Britain persuaded Nigeria to send troops to restore Kabbah. Embarrassed bythe presence of South African mercenaries, Washington also insisted that Kabbahbreak the contract with Executive Outcomes. Gradually, the Nigerians pushed therebels out of Freetown. Kabbah returned to the shattered capital and the RUFappeared again to be routed. Sankoh, the RUF's supreme leader, was arrested,tried and sentenced to death.But in the eastern forests, Mosquito rallied his retreating men, reorganized andplotted revenge. He launched as soon as the rains ended in the autumn of 1998.The RUF and their allies among the bodyguard junta slammed into Kono, thenMakeni, then on toward Freetown. Ambassador Joseph Melrose evacuated the U.S.Embassy on Christmas Eve. Overconfident, underequipped Nigerian commandersallowed the rebels to enter the capital shortly after New Year's Day. The rebelsorganized forced marches of great crowds of abducted civilians to shield theiradvance.By the end of January, the Nigerians had recovered just enough to begin slowlyrousting the rebels from the capital and its eastern suburbs. But by then,thousands upon thousands of people had been killed, kidnapped or mutilated bythe rebels.VI.Freetown:'We've come to see you on a very important matter'He felt sharp pain when the axe first fell. The second, third and fourth times,Amadu felt nothing. When Tommy had finished, the rebels picked Amadu up andkicked him away from the chopping block at the school gate. He did not stay towatch his brothers, Alpha and Dawda, who were behind him in line. Bleedingprofusely, he walked and fell, walked and fell, then collapsed on the clay road.Alpha stumbled upon him. He, too, was now bleeding from a stump. They walkedabout a mile toward Freetown. The streets were deserted. They knocked on astranger's door along a main road. A family bundled them inside. Alpha and Amadueach asked for a poisonous potion of cleaning fluid; they had decided whilewalking that they wanted to commit suicide. Their hosts refused. They wrappedthe brothers' wounds, gave them milk and tried to assure them that they wouldsurvive. The boys slept fitfully in the parlor. Nigerian artillery shells echoedoutside. When the sun rose, the boys found themselves on a street newlycontrolled by pro-government forces. One of the family with whom they had stayedtook them to the hospital. The boys were bedded in a ward where dozens ofamputees were beginning to arrive.The next day, their half-brother tracked them down. He told them that their10-year-old brother, Dawda, had bled to death in the street after his amputationand had been buried in a makeshift grave nearby. Their parents and youngersister had been locked inside their home, which the rebels had set on fire.There was nothing left of them or the house, only charred concrete and rubble.Outside the hospital where the brothers lay, scores of bloodied stragglers anddesperate relatives wandered in the streets, searching for medical help orseeking news of the abducted. On street after street in the eastern suburbs, therebels had staged elaborately orchestrated attacks. Families were corralled anddivided, some selected for death, some for amputation, some set free. Childrenwere raped within earshot or view of their parents. The disoriented survivorszigzagged toward Freetown's center, hoping for medical attention or refuge.At the mosque in a section of Kissy's slopes called Rogbalan, about 100 Muslimsand Christians had huddled for days in the sanctuary. Some were neighbors. Somewere strangers seeking shelter, people whose names could not later be recalled,whose fate would be registered officially on the lists of the disappeared.After days of harassment and threats, several rebels, including one described bysurvivors as no older than 10, arrived at the mosque's gate. They wore blackT-shirts and women's wigs. A teenaged boy sitting on the mosque's steps wascaught warning those in the sanctuary that the rebels were coming. The rebelstold the teenager to open his mouth. One then jammed an assault rifle down histhroat and shot him dead.They entered the sanctuary and one rebel in a dreadlock wig stood before AlieuBangura, the mosque's gray-flecked imam."We've come to see you on a very important matter," the rebel announced. "We'regoing to kill all of you.""If God Almighty agrees, that will happen," Bangura replied.They told him to take a few steps back and then they opened fire, tilting theirbarrels down to the floor where dozens lay huddled, spraying wildly from left toright as the refugees screamed. Some ran and were gunned down in the courtyardor in the hallway leading to a small school out back.They missed the imam, though he stood right before them -- a miracle, it wouldbe widely agreed. As the shooting erupted, a man lying nearby, struggling withpain, kicked Bangura's legs and knocked him on his back. He felt other people'sblood washing over him, even into his eyes.The stories of other massacres would later echo with common themes: the strange,almost formal deliberateness; the chilling dialogue between killers and victims,talk that often touched on politics, although the civilian victims usually knewlittle; and the terrible images of the rebels with their faces covered with drugpatches or masks or bandannas or wigs.All through late January, corpses lay unattended in the streets. At the KissyMental Hospital farther up the hill, Human Rights Watch would later report,about 16 men were executed and six women hacked with machetes. At theBrotherhood of the Cross and Star Church in nearby Wellington, another 12,including three children, were massacred with pistols and assault rifles. In theeastern suburbs, families were locked in their houses and burned alive. Entirestreets were sprayed with kerosene and set alight.Human Rights Watch, citing the government's senior medical examiner, laterreported that 7,335 corpses were registered for burial after the January rebeloffensive. Thousands more people simply disappeared -- dead or kidnapped, theirfamilies did not know.Helen's family was among them: They had no idea what had become of her after shewas led away into Kissy's hills by the rebels.As Kissy burned, Helen lay imprisoned at a rebel camp not far away. For what shewould later recall as a period of about two weeks, she was gang-raped by boysand men roving in and out of the base. Like many other women abducted by therebels, she worked to partially protect herself by forging a union with ColonelBloodshed, relying on him to keep others away. By February, shelled by Nigerianand Guinean troops, they struck camp and trekked to the bush. They arrived at anisolated patch of jungle called the Occra Hills and settled in. Helen wasforbidden to speak freely with other rebel captives. In the deepest trough ofnight, she remembers, "when they were asleep, I would raise up my head to see ifeveryone was sleeping. But there was no way to escape."February passed this way. And March, April. The BBC resounded with news of amajor war in the Balkans. In Sierra Leone, the war ebbed; negotiations for peacehad begun in neighboring countries, sponsored by the United Nations. The rebelsawaited the results."One night," Helen recalls, "they were drunk after smoking and drinking. Alldrunk, and dancing. And they all passed out . . . I was watching them,thinking."She sat down beside another abductee, her friend Fatmatah. "Right now, thesepeople are drunk. Let's run away," Helen recalls saying."They'll kill us," Fatmatah whispered."They will not know. They're drunk."They watched some more. Fatmatah summoned her courage. "Let's not take a thing,"Helen said. "Let's run."Helen slipped into the forest and soon Fatmatah followed. They began to run. Forhours they crashed through the blackness, slicing themselves on vines andbrambles. They reached a stream and rested until dawn. In the light theystumbled down from the hills, found a village and were sheltered by an oldwoman. After two days, Helen pressed on for Freetown alone. She walked until shefound the main road, waved down a van, spilled out her tale and begged thedriver for a ride.In Freetown hours later she spotted an uncle in the street, leaped out, andasked about her family. Her father, the government official, was in ConnaughtHospital. The rebels had burned her home. Everything was lost. But her parentshad survived.At Connaught, she ran to Ward 8, where her uncle said her father was recovering.She spotted him sitting in the sun behind a railing on a second-story balcony."Papa! Papa! I've come! I've come!" she shouted.Astonished, he called to his wife and raced to meet his daughter. Weeping andshouting, they embraced in the hospital hallway, and Helen saw the bandagedstumps above her father's elbows where his two arms had been.VII.Magburaka:Toward PoliticsSecret societies in painted faces, the graying pooh-bahs of a paramountchieftaincy, the women's league, children, traders and notables of every stripe-- out they poured by the thousands into dusty streets under a brutal sun,swaying and singing and shouting joyously that the Big Man had come to town."Peace!" he promised when he climbed from a shiny car."Revolution!" they cried, knowing the drill.It was the nearest thing to normalcy we had seen in our travels through ruralSierra Leone -- a holiday festival masquerading as a political rally inMagburaka. To the pent-up, school-less, war-weary citizenry of Makeni District,just a few hours drive from Freetown, it hardly mattered who was the guest ofhonor. The party was the thing, and just about any Big Man would do. But as ithappened, our slog across RUF territory had led us finally to the rebels' bossof bosses, "The Leader," as even General Mosquito called him, former televisioncameraman Foday Sankoh.Shaking his ample belly as he danced and weaved through the throng, Sankohseemed a fuzzy and wizardly man, mild and eccentric. "No more war," he told theyoung RUF combatants who had lined up to greet him in an honor guard,symbolically taking assault rifles out of the boys' hands. "No more war."When Gadhafi organized the RUF, Sankoh was apparently the most credibledissident he could attract to his desert guerrilla school. He must have seemedan unlikely cult revolutionary. A poorly educated farmer's son, Sankoh hadenlisted in the army in 1956 and never rose above the rank of corporal. Hissuperiors sent him to Scotland for training as a cameraman, then assigned him toSierra Leonean national television. One day in 1969 he went to cover a mutiny inan army barracks. Instead of reporting on the uprising, he decided to join; hewas jailed for five years when the coup failed. Freetown's hulking concreteprison became "my first university in politics," Sankoh said, where he "readabout all revolution -- in the U.S., China, elsewhere." Upon release, hetraveled east to the rain forest and "used my camera, my photography, as a frontto organize."He fought in the bush during the early years of the war, but after 1996languished in custody or exile until the Lome accord was signed last July.Sankoh ceded the battlefield to Mosquito. Tensions between the two men ran high.In Buedu, Mosquito complained to us bitterly that Sankoh was rushing too quicklyto embrace peace, that he was selling out the RUF combatants to an uncertainfuture. The two men had spent very little time in each other's company duringthe last several years and each clearly worried that the other might attempt anarrest or assassination."He is my son," Sankoh said of Mosquito. "Why should Mosquito have in mind anyplan to overthrow the RUF? He would destroy himself."The United States and the United Nations have invested considerable hope inSankoh. They rely on his assertion that he wants to enter politics and run forSierra Leone's presidency. The Clinton administration's special envoy to Africa,Jesse Jackson, helped persuade Sankoh to embrace the Lome deal. When thenegotiations reached a critical stage, President Clinton called him -- Sankohhas been dining out on the conversation ever since. "What rebel leader getscalled by the president of the United States?" he asked. "I only got that callbecause I fought in the bush for so many years."Not to mention the amputations and kidnappings. Here, too, Sankoh went furtherthan Mosquito. He sometimes apologized in public for wartime atrocities andbegged public forgiveness for excesses committed by the RUF. While he said hisenemies staged amputations in order to blame the RUF, he was also careful toargue that all of the most offensive atrocities occurred only after 1996 -- aperiod when he was no longer leading the RUF in the field. When governmentmilitias began the amputations and blamed the RUF, he said, they created a"political-propaganda machine" that turned opinion against the rebels."But the people know the truth of what happened."That may be so. The question is whether it will matter.VIII.Washington:The Meanings of Sierra LeoneWas there really anything the United States or its European allies could havedone to ameliorate Sierra Leone's violence? Perhaps -- and it would not haveinvolved a wrenching decision to put U.S. or NATO soldiers at risk. But it wouldhave required a view of Africa far different from the one that has shaped U.S.foreign policy during most of the last decade.As U.S. troops withdrew from Somalia six years ago after sustaining casualtieson a humanitarian mission, American journalist Robert Kaplan wrote in theAtlantic Monthly an influential essay partially set in Sierra Leone titled "TheComing Anarchy." He described the country as engulfed by "an increasinglawlessness that is far more significant than any coup, rebel incursion, orepisodic experiment in democracy," a lawlessness that signaled a world where"criminal anarchy emerges as the real 'strategic' danger," where Africa and muchof the rest of the Third World would be marked by "the withering away of centralgovernments, the rise of tribal and regional domains, the unchecked spread ofdisease, and the growing pervasiveness of war."Kaplan's thesis that Africa was drifting beyond governance took hold with manymembers of Congress, diplomats and foreign policy analysts. It seemed to capturetheir own gathering revulsion and exhaustion with post-Cold War challengesAmerica faced in the Third World, especially in violent corners of Africa.Americans and Europeans watched passively during Rwanda's genocide in 1994,where hundreds of thousands of African civilians died in a killing spree fargreater in scale than anything that has taken place in Sierra Leone. PresidentClinton later expressed pangs of regret. Nine months before the crisis inFreetown, he embarked on a six-country tour of Africa, and he apologized inRwanda for the West's failure to intervene. But in early 1999, as the rebelsentered Sierra Leone's capital and began to butcher civilians, the United Statesshut its embassy and stood down; among other things, Clinton now had a Senateimpeachment trial on his hands.There was an alternative. By late 1998, Nigeria had already placed thousands oftroops in Sierra Leone with support from a broad alliance of Africangovernments. This alliance would almost certainly have battled the rebelsindefinitely if the United States and Britain had provided funding,intelligence, communications and weaponry -- as they have subsequently pledgedto do, on a more limited scale, to support the Lome accord. Nigerian and otherAfrican troops fighting from a U.S.- and European-supplied high-technologyplatform almost certainly could have pushed the RUF out of nearly every majorcity and town. Not that a military victory would have been certain orinexpensive. Nor would it have necessarily curtailed violence against civilians,as the Kosovo intervention showed. But reducing the RUF to a marginal, defeatedforce scattered in the bush probably could have been achieved with anall-African intervention army roughly the size of the one that eventuallyentered Kosovo.Of course, no such scenario was ever seriously entertained. State Departmentofficials say it was hardly even discussed at the White House. Sierra Leone isprobably the last place on Earth in which today's Pentagon would wish to fight.Moreover, the handful of specialists paying attention weren't sure the RUF couldbe defeated on the battlefield. And the humanitarians in Washington and Londonwho complained about Africa's neglect had little stomach for a militarysolution. When Tony Blair's government was caught early in 1999 trying tosmuggle arms to Kabbah to help him fight the rebels, outrage among liberals inBritain forced the government to apologize and back down.So instead, the United States and Britain leaned on Sierra Leone's electedpresident to open peace talks with the rebels just weeks after they hadslaughtered thousands in Freetown. The Clinton administration turned the casefile over to Jesse Jackson, a special envoy with virtually no bureaucraticclout, a negotiator with a one-peace-fits-all approach. General Mosquito,commanding 10,000 teenagers in the rain forest, discovered that he could bringthe world's most powerful military nations to the bargaining table through theselective application of force. "When I ran out of alternatives, I had no choicebut to go on the offensive, to use force, which is all they understand," hesays. "I had the upper hand -- I told them that they had to release Sankoh andgo around the table" for settlement talks.And why would the United States go along with his demands? To secure peace,argues Jackson, but also because an isolationist Congress and an indifferentpublic meant the United States had no alternative but negotiation. "If we couldgo in there with half of the Kosovo budget and use that budget as an essentialforce to democratize, we'd have something to offer," Jackson says. But countriesonly intervene where public opinion insists or strategic interests are seen tobe at stake. "This, of course, is press coverage," Jackson says. "If Americanshad seen Sierra Leoneans walking down the street amputated, babies bludgeonedand pregnant women stabbed, Americans would have been as upset over Sierra Leoneas they were over Kosovo . . . Part of this thing is putting light on Africa."Defending the peace negotiations and amnesty plan for the rebels, the architectsof the Lome accord cite East Africa's Mozambique as inspiration. There a similarpeace agreement persuaded Renamo -- a guerrilla group that once terrorized andmutilated civilians -- to forswear violence and enter politics. Last month,Mozambique staged its latest successful elections after five years of peace andsurging economic growth. Renamo leaders sit in parliament; they have no warcrimes tribunals to fear.But much has changed in the world since Mozambique's peace was forged in 1994.War crimes tribunals have convened for Yugoslavia and Rwanda. Chile's formermilitary dictator, Gen. Augusto Pinochet, has been arrested on torture chargesin Britain. And in Kosovo, of course, an entire war was framed in 1999 aroundthe ideas of international humanitarian law.Now comes a U.N.-sponsored amnesty absolving the RUF and its allies ofkidnapping, rape, murder and amputation. "For civil society in Sierra Leone, forcivil society in Africa generally, the amnesty shook the concept ofaccountability to the core," argues Peter Takirambudde, executive director forAfrica at Human Rights Watch. "It represented a major retreat by all the parties-- the U.N., the Clinton administration, the others. For the rest of Africa,where there are rebels in the bush, the signal is that atrocities can becommitted -- especially if they are frightening atrocities. The lesson to otherrebels is that half measures will not do."That is certainly the lesson Mosquito has learned. Last month, four weeks afterwe left his camp, Mosquito reportedly fled Buedu in a spasm of bloodshed. TheNigerian general commanding pro-government forces in Sierra Leone announced thatMosquito had executed eight of his senior aides after accusing them ofconspiring against him, and that he had then left the country. In Freetown,Sierra Leoneans initially celebrated. The RUF appointed a new general loyal toSankoh to command guerrillas in the eastern forests. On December 29, Sankoh helda press conference in the capital. He announced that Mosquito had been fired forinsubordination, the BBC reported, and he sharply criticized the peace process.Mosquito surfaced in Monrovia, where Charles Taylor, now president of Liberia,said he hoped to broker a reconciliation between Mosquito and Sankoh. How manymen had followed Mosquito? Had Martin Coker stayed with him, or had he beenamong the executed "conspirators"? The RUF did not say.There were reports from Liberia that Mosquito would be offered -- or forced toaccept -- a life in exile. But who would enforce such a deal? Reading theconfused reports of his retreat from Buedu, I remembered that at several pointsduring our long talks about his future, Mosquito had hinted that if he wasforced to break openly with Sankoh, he would simply start his own, newrevolutionary movement to carry on the violent struggle. Perhaps this was whathe now intended. His countrymen will find out soon enough.IX.Freetown:Among the WoundedSome of Freetown's amputees live in a village of blue and white canvas shacks,not far from the center of town. The "Medecins Sans Frontieres Amputee and WarWounded Camp," as it calls itself on a sign scrawled near a busy road, holds 371registered amputees and their families. Drainage ditches run among rows oftacked-together homes supplied by a patchwork of foreign charities. A primaryschool assembles each morning under an open thatched-roof gazebo. Up the slope,men are raising felled tree limbs to construct a new mosque.It is an eerie, nervous time in Freetown. An uncertain peace has held just longenough that some rebels are beginning to drift out of the bush and back into thecapital, looking for jobs or friends or just a break from sleeping on theground. Sierra Leone is small enough and frightened enough that people keeptrack of strangers in their midst, and sometimes a neighborhood can identifyreturning rebels just as soon as they shuffle up the road. Then questions ofjustice and equity and international law acquire an immediacy not often felt inThe Hague. Some of the returnees have been lynched or burned alive. More oftenthe streets ring out with shouts or threats or spontaneous debates.The appetite for peace runs so deep and so broad in Sierra Leone that itsmothers all else. Even some who have been badly abused by the rebels areprepared to accept them into politics if it truly means peace. Ask aboutjustice, and you hear about its impossibility -- no one can imagine how youcould give evidence safely. The rebels are ministers now, they drive around townin new cars with sirens and armed escorts. They can snap their fingers and comeand take you in the night. Who is going to testify against them? Such doubtsflow from an accurate reading by ordinary Sierra Leoneans of their ownpowerlessness.In the voices of the wounded pulses an impressive effort to close off the past.To do so requires a resilience that no outsider can readily imagine. Listeningand listening, you begin to feel that the survivors of such an invasion map notonly a random distribution of luck, but also a selection of a certain kind ofemotional muscle.And yet there are those who atrophy, even now, even in the snug village of blueand white canvas shacks, where Alpha and Amadu Jalloh, two brothers with twocomplementary arms, share a room behind a flap and drift off to town most daysto hustle and trade in a loose network of shops run by their diminished family.It is Alpha everybody worries about. He sickens easily, he won't often leave theamputees' camp. You walk with him around town and you discover that when a22-year-old with girlfriends and gold watches and a reputation in theneighborhood has his arm chopped off while lying face down in the road, he losessomething other than a useful limb. He becomes a spectacle, a source ofpolitical meaning, an object of pity, an object of disgust."Look at what the bastards did!" onlookers call out in anger as we walk alongthe road where the rebels had escorted him the year before.Alpha is staring at the eroded red clay."Right now, walking with you, I feel ashamed," he tells me. "I have no fitness.They are pitying me."They are, of course. If he sits in the cashier's chair at his sister-in-law'svegetable stall, customers will simply walk up to him and hand him money -- notfor vegetables, but for him. It infuriates him."I would rather have died than be living like this," he says softly.We reach the school gate where Tommy stood a year earlier. Alpha points out thespots where the line formed, where the boys lay down, where the axe fell.He doubles over. He is not feeling well. We need to go back down the hill. Weneed to take him to the doctor."My arm hurts," Alpha says.Steve Coll is The Post's managing editor. He will be fielding questions andcomments about this article at www.washingtonpost.com/liveonline on Monday at 1p.m.