Jonathan CapehartWhy Obama can't show angerWhen was the last time you saw your black male colleague, especially if you'rein a white-collar profession, show anger or rage in public? My hunch is never.The reason? African American men are taught at very young ages (or learn thehard way) to keep our emotions in check, to not lose our cool, lest we beperceived as dangerous or menacing or give someone a reason to doubt our abilityto handle our jobs. Think of the emotional corset women in leadership positionsare expected to maintain to ensure they never cry in public or show too muchcompassion for fear of raising doubt and seeming weak.Over the past two weeks, I have watched with increasing frustration thecriticism that President Obama hasn't shown enough emotion -- read: outrage --over the flow of BP oil choking the Gulf Coast. Sure, I, too, have asked thepresident to connect more with the American people over this disaster. But Iwould never advise Obama to do what movie director Spike Lee suggested lastweek: "One time, go off!"We all know one reason Obama won't "go off." He's just not wired that way. Overtexpressions of rage (or any overheated emotion) are not in his personality.But there are other reasons he can't "go off." Consider the Angry Black Man.That bogeyman who haunts many African American men, particularly professionals,who scares us into zen-like tranquility when fury is warranted, whether or notwe are prone to it. The 2009 arrest of Harvard professor Henry Louis Gates inhis own home after he mouthed off to police investigating reports of a break-inis a prime example of what can go wrong. As a Facebook friend wrote after mypost on Obama's third trip to Louisiana last Friday, "If Obama were to displayanger he runs the risk of . . . becoming too scary or threatening to the public,immediately non-presidential!"In truth, Clarence Thomas's controlled-burn response to allegations of sexualharassment during his 1991 Supreme Court confirmation hearings -- which hecalled a "high-tech lynching for uppity blacks who in any way deign to think forthemselves" -- was the closest we've come to seeing rage from a black man onsuch a prominent stage.Americans expect their presidents to be calm in a crisis. But we have torecognize that Obama already has this manner (or skill) mastered because itattaches to any black professional, especially those in positions of authority.There are a number of questions to be considered here: whether there are certainways it is acceptable for black men (as opposed to others) to behave, whether itis fair or appropriate to define Obama or his presidency in terms of his being ablack man, and whether Obama should emote just to please the media or anyoneelse. As one Democratic strategist told me: "I don't need my president to feelmy pain. I need my president to take on problems and solve them." This is whereI and the American people are in agreement.