Appearing on "Meet the Press" last month, Robert Bennett, one of the chiefauthors of a report on the child sex abuse scandal in the Catholic Church, saidthat "child sexual abuse is a national health problem -- it is a nationalcrisis." The report noted that since 1950, 4,392 Catholic priests had sexuallyabused 10,667 children. But, as Bennett noted, these numbers are just a smallpart of the problem, because child sexual abuse is perpetrated not only byfathers in the church but by fathers and other people in families across theUnited States. If we as a nation are serious about protecting our children, weneed a strategy for prevention. We need to stop child sexual abuse before ithappens.Punishment for the abuser and treatment for the victim are necessary, but theyaren't enough. We ought to learn from what has been done in the area of drinkingand driving. Public health scientists, working with advocates, fostered a newsocial norm: that drunk driving, far from being something to joke about, isunacceptable. People stopped looking the other way when someone started to getbehind the wheel under the influence of alcohol. They insisted on designateddrivers and on taking the keys away. As a society, we lowered our threshold fordestructive behavior of that sort and moved more quickly to help people withdrinking problems -- if possible before they got into trouble from drinking anddriving.In the same way, we need to be looking for warnings of sexual abuse of children,and to act on those warnings before the offense is committed. Stop It Now is anorganization that uses marketing techniques to change attitudes about childsexual abuse. Through its work, we have learned that people at risk of abusewill come forward for help if it is offered. We have learned that families needhelp to identify healthy sexual behavior and the warning signs of abusivebehavior in adults and children. They need help when they have concerns aboutsexual behavior toward children but nothing to report because the system startsworking only after there is an identified victim. When the social norms supportseeking help, family members have courageously come forward with wrenchingstories of what has happened and how it could have been different.Estimates of the incidence of abuse in the United States range from 100,000 to500,000 cases a year. Children routinely do not report sexual abuse; 88 percentis not reported to authorities, and only 3 percent of people who have sexuallyoffended have been convicted. Most such offenses occur in the homes andneighborhoods of the children. We also know that in intimate settings, childrenare even less likely to reveal abuse. Many people still believe that strangersare the danger to children. But most sexual abuse is perpetrated by someone achild knows -- a family member, a family friend or even an older adolescent.Sexual abusers come from all socioeconomic classes and all racial and ethnicgroups.Why does it happen? Bennett said that within the church "there was such a fearof bringing scandal to the church that they planted seeds of an even greaterscandal." The same fear keeps one parent from reporting the destructive behaviorof a spouse.We cannot put the responsibility for reporting and stopping child sexual abuseon the child. Adults need to be educated about what constitutes sexual abuse andtaught to recognize the warning signs. And we need to make help available forabusers or potential abusers. In Vermont, abusers began coming forward to thecriminal justice system once they knew help was available.Prevention of child sexual abuse will not be accomplished overnight. But whatbetter time than now to start mobilizing the programs we have for children andfamilies, to educate parents and to change the social norms? It's time for thechurch and for the country to move beyond punishment for perpetrators andtherapy for the victims. By starting to focus on prevention we can ensure thatin many instances, the abuse will never occur.Fran Henry is founder of Stop It Now, a program to prevent sexual abuse ofchildren. Mark Rosenberg, executive director of the Task Force for ChildSurvival and Development, is a former assistant surgeon general and foundingdirector of the National Center for Injury Prevention and Control, a part of theU.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. Henry will discuss this piecetoday at 12:30 p.m. on www.washingtonpost.com.