Don't let yourself get "assistant-ized."It's one of the many perils of being a young woman in today's job market, HannahSeligson warns in her new book, "New Girl on the Job: Advice From the Trenches"(Citadel Press, $19.95).There are enough issues that specifically affect young women -- such as salarynegotiations and  the tendency to pigeonhole women into support rather thanleadership roles -- that she felt they deserved their own career guide, she saidin an interview.Seligson, an Alexandria native, isn't too far from thosewondering-if-you-look-like-alittle-girl-playing-dress-up-in-a-suit days herself."New Girl" is a look at what she learned from her mistakes as well as guidancefrom other women -- some young, some at the top of their field such as cosmeticsmaven Bobbi Brown, television journalist Soledad O'Brien, and Jill Herzig,executive editor of Glamour magazine. It's a practical addition to a fieldcrowded with  plenty of navel-gazing angst."New Girl" covers the key things that any young  woman needs to know to thriveat those first couple of jobs, including:Asking for feedback. No, this isn't a sign of weakness, Seligson says. It's oneof the most effective ways to get better at your job. Constructive criticismisn't a personal attack, so don't take it as such. Solicit feedback in aninformal, ongoing way to keep from getting "sandbagged" -- "when a supervisor ora boss hurls a litany of complaints at you with little warning . . . which ismore likely to occur if you wait until your year-end review to get feedback fromyour boss," Seligson writes.Responding to sexual harassment. Despite great advances in women's rights,sexual harassment still limits women's progress at work. Seligson's advice isno-nonsense and straightforward: "If a situation with a male co-worker leads youto contemplate quitting your job or transferring divisions, or is preventing youfrom operating at full throttle, it's probably time to seek an intervention."The flip side to that is to curb your own flirtiness. When you're young, it'seasy to think, "Hey, I'm cute, why not work that for all it's worth?" But in thelong run, it could backfire. "Oprah Winfrey certainly didn't get where she istoday because she used her sexuality, and she's not the only one," Seligsonwrites.Moving on. Young women often hang on to jobs for way too long, even jobs wherethey are grossly overworked and under-compensated. It's as if they are afraid toleave. But staying put comes at a cost. "By staying in a job that makes youmiserable or in which your skills and talents aren't utilized, you are losingprecious months -- or even years -- that could be spent in a job for whichyou're better suited. . . . There is a difference between paying your dues andworking at a job you hate," she writes. (She's  onto something. I often gete-mails from people who are terrified of how their boss will react when theyhand in their  two weeks' notice at their entry-level jobs. Those people arenever men.)Negotiating for raises. The persistent pay gap between men and women (includingright out of college, according to one recent study) makes this an issue allyoung women should pay   attention to. Seligson nails the problem with areference to what negotiating experts Carol Frohlinger and Deborah Kolb call the"tiara syndrome" -- "when you keep your head down and do your work and expectthat someone will notice you and put a tiara on your head." It doesn't work.Young women  must stick up for themselves in pay negotiations, for their ownbenefit and because   self-confidence is perceived as an asset to employers.Digging Out of a RutDo you fear that you're being "assistant-ized," or stuck in an entry-level joblonger than you should be? If you're willing to share your story for thiscolumn, e-mail me at slayterme@washpost.com. Please include your full name,home town and a daytime phone number.Join Mary Ellen Slayter and guest Hannah Seligson for Career Track Live, anonline discussion of issues affecting young workers, at 2 p.m. tomorrow athttp://www.washingtonpost.com.