THE ASKBy Sam LipsyteFarrar Straus Giroux. 296 pp. $25Here's Milo Burke, the sad-sack hero of "The Ask," reflecting on artificialintelligence and computers. Maura is his wife:"Some argued that the creation of artificial intelligence amounted to cruel andunusual punishment. Consciousness was suffering. Why inflict it on a poormachine? I wasn't one of those people, but only because I believed that AI wouldsomeday make good on its promise of astonishing robot sex, if not for us, thenfor our children."I was also one of those people who hadn't caught up with the latest socialnetworking site. Maura belonged to most of them. She passed most eveningsbefriending men who had tried to date-rape her in high school."Generally, novels make us turn the pages because we want to know what happensnext. But with Sam Lipsyte's "The Ask," we turn the pages because we want toknow what's going to happen in the next sentence. Here rants become arias, andvulgarity sheer poetry. Lipsyte's masters aren't Messrs. Strunk and White;they're gallows-humored Céline, Hunter S. Thompson at his most gonzo, the greatStanley Elkin.Although "The Ask" is unquestionably funny, it's by no means essentially comic.Its theme, after all, is loss, often heartbreaking loss. In the opening chapter,Milo is fired from his job as a mediocre fundraiser for a mediocre university inNew York. Once he dreamed of becoming a painter; now, approaching 40, hedaydreams about his old college days, his misfit housemates and formergirlfriends. Maura, whom he adores, no longer likes to be touched by him, andonly Bernie, their nearly 4-year-old son, seems to be keeping the little familytogether.Listless and drinking too much, Milo is nonetheless suddenly called back to hisformer job. The immensely wealthy Purdy Stuart -- a major "ask" -- might bewilling to endow a building or fund a project, but he insists that Milo be thego-between. Years ago, the two had been uneasy friends in college, for Purdyalready exuded the sure confidence that comes with a trust fund and an obviousfuture in the ruling class. Even back then, Milo wasn't precisely upbeat:"For a time I wore only heavy, steel-toed boots because I figured if apocalypticwar broke out, sturdy footwear would be a must. Then it dawned on me that thebetter the boots, the more quickly I would be killed for them. My only shot atsurvival would be shoeless abjection."When the two meet for lunch, Purdy is tanned and toned, looking like a million,or rather several hundred million. He's married to a former supermodel namedMelinda, a "generically stunning woman." As Milo says:"There were thousands, or at least several hundred, just like her in this partof the city . . . perfect storms of perfect bones, monuments to tone and hairtechnology. Around here she was almost ordinary, but you could still picturesmall towns where men might bludgeon their friends, their fathers, just to runtheir sun-cracked lips along her calves."These days, Purdy spends most of his time making deals or jetting off toconferences. He calls Milo from Vail, where he's attending "an ideas festival"and sharing his suite "with a gorgeous renewable-energy guru." You should comeout here, Purdy tells his old college bud:"It's really something. I mean, these people, you read their books, theirnewsletters, see them on TV, but to hear them in person, chat with them. Veryimpressive. Do you realize that someday we will be heating our houses withtrout?"While Purdy dawdles over the exact nature and amount of his "give," Milo makesends meet by building decks with Nick, a guy with big dreams. "He wanted tobreak into television. He watched a lot of reality shows, he informed me,especially the ones about breaking into television." Nick has noticed somethingstrange about death-row prisoners:"Bear with me and answer this question. Why do these death row losers alwaysorder nuggets and dipping sauce and biggie fries for their last meal? Is it A,they are ghetto or barrio or trailer-park trash who don't know any better, whocould never imagine a taste sensation transcending that of a Hot Pocket and anorange Fanta, or, B, something else entirely?"Before long, Nick is outlining his idea for "Dead Man Dining," in which "theworld's top chefs prepare exquisite last meals for condemned prisoners." Thisseems no more unlikely than the shows Maura and Milo watch together:"We jumped from pundit to pundit, then on to basketball, Albanian cooking,endangered voles, 'America's Top Topiary Designers,' 'America's Toughest Back-UpGenerators,' 'The Amazing Class Struggle,' the catfish channel, a show called,simply, 'Airstrikes!' "Throughout "The Ask," Lipsyte keeps returning to family life, but particularlyto the relationship between fathers and sons. Milo fondly recalls his ownfeckless, skirt-chasing dad and frankly delights in his son, Bernie -- "Boldname, by the way," Purdy says. "You just definitely want him to be anaccountant?" The little boy spends a great deal of his free time "on the sofa,watching his favorite show, the one where children mutated into gooey robots,sneered. It was like a parable from a religion based entirely on sarcasm." Thescenes at Bernie's preschool, the Happy Salamander, are all a hoot.But, then, no group is safe from Lipsyte's gimlet eye. Take the privileged"international teens with their embossed leathers, their cashmere hoodies andpimpled excitements." The disdainful Milo is convinced that these wealthycollege kids from China, Japan, Russia or Kuwait are gaming everybody:"We sponsored them for visas, and when the paperwork went through, theytransferred to one of the online universities, lit out for the territories,Vegas, Miami, Maui. No classes to attend, all their assignments written bystarving grad students and emailed for grading to shut-in adjuncts scatteredacross the North American landmass, the international teens would have a wholesemester for the most delightful modes of free fall. Daddy's Shanghai factoriesor Caspian oil pipes would foot the bills."Note the rich fathers in that last sentence. As it happens, about this time Miloencounters Don Charboneau, a bitter 21-year-old Iraqi war vet whose legs havebeen blown off and who hobbles around on titanium prostheses. Don's mother, asingle mom, has died suddenly, and it turns out that his father is none otherthan Purdy, whom he utterly despises yet hungers to meet. Purdy would like thisancient by-blow to just go away. From this point on, "The Ask" grows darker,increasingly fraught.Lost jobs, lost loves, lost fathers, lost hope -- does anything remain? In thesepages, even the United States is regularly deemed a loser nation, metaphorically"slumped in the corner of the pool hall, some gummy coot with a pint of Mad Dogand soggy yellow eyes, just another mark for the juvenile wolves." Purdy's dyinglawyer, Lee Moss,  says straight out, "My grandson's at Harvard right now. He'sa dummy. But then again most of them are. I went to City College on the GI Bill.This was back when there was America."What else happens in "The Ask"? Don't ask. Because Lipsyte's firecracker proseis so much fun to read, one can almost overlook all the heartbreak in hisbrilliant novel. Almost. In the end, the dazzle simply highlights the darknessand the despair.Visit Dirda's online book discussion at http://washingtonpost.com/readingroom.