CHARLOTTESVILLE - WhenVirginia football Coach Mike London caught wind of theunprecedented NCAA sanctions levied at Penn State in July, his phone wouldn'tstop ringing.Recruits and coaches from the high school and college ranks wanted to know howthe Cavaliers would approach the situation. London even heard from coachingcolleagues who had already booked tickets on flights to State College, Pa., inhopes of luring players to transfer to their schools.The NCAA created what London called an "open market" by suspending transferrestrictions for Penn State players who wanted to leave, but the Cavaliersmostlystayed out of that fray. Instead, Virginia preferred to show interest only inNittany Lions recruits they had previously recruited.Even when Damascus High linebacker Zach Bradshaw switched his oral commitmentfrom Penn State to Virginia last month, the initial contact in that scenario wasmade by one of Bradshaw's coaches. When it came down to it, "You felt bad forCoach [Bill] O'Brien," London said this week."I couldn't imagine having to deal with that, and keeping the guys loyal,keeping the guys wanting to come to the school. . . . He's got a tough job."That is the overriding sentiment as Virginia prepares to face Penn State onSaturday in Charlottesville, the Nittany Lions' first road game since formerassistant coach Jerry Sandusky was convicted on 45 counts of child sex abuse andthe football program was hit with a four-year bowl ban and scholarshipreductions.It's an important game for both teams. The Cavaliers hope to start the season2-0 with looming road games at Georgia Tech and TCU the next two weeks; PennState is coming off a season-opening loss to Ohio.http://stats.washingtonpost.com/cfb/recap.asp?g=201209010034&e=2012_01_0034&home=34&vis=54&final=trueTheoff-field circumstances surrounding the Nittany Lions' season can't be ignored.With Penn State on the schedule this year, many Virginia players paid closeattention to media reports on the scandal during the offseason. They're tryingto treat the game like any other, with designs on defeating a brand-name foe innonconference play. But there's empathy for the players who will line upopposite them at Scott Stadium."It's pretty honorable with what they've done," Virginia defensive end JakeSnyder said. "The NCAA made it pretty obvious that they can get out and they cango to a different school and play with no hesitation, no problem, and those guysstuck by the school and the program that they love and that's something that'spretty awesome."London believes playing the games represents the only "non-distraction" PennState enjoys these days. O'Brien, who is beginning his first season as thesuccessor to former coach Joe Paterno, went one step further when he said thisweek, "There's an element of that, just being able to get on a plane and go playat Virginia."What reception the Nittany Lions receive will also be a point of intrigueSaturday. A near-sellout crowd is expected at Scott Stadium, and Penn State'splayers and coaches are expecting the worst despite the venue's docilereputation in recent years."We have said since Day One when all this stuff broke out that road games aregoing to be brutal for us," Nittany Lions fullback Michael Zordich said.For Virginia, Saturday is the first real test of the year after a 43-19 victoryover Richmond to open the season. Its young secondary will have to deal withO'Brien's NFL-style offense and quarterback Michael Rocco might have to pass theCavaliers to a victory again if the Nittany Lions' defense focuses on slowingdown Virginia's trio of tailbacks.But perhaps more important, the game will be on national television because ofall the attention being paid to Penn State. And whether Virginia is comfortablewith it or not, the Nittany Lions' troubles could be a boon for London andcompany."You just have to love the spotlight. We talk about it all the time. You have tolove the pressure in that situation," tight end Paul Freedman said. "All theeyes are on you so it's a great situation to show what you have."giannottom@washpost.com