I can't summon any schadenfreude for Oprah Winfrey, just sympathy -- both forher good intentions and her determination to live up to them. And I pity anyonefoolish enough to stand in her way.I did wince yesterday when she called allegations of sexual and physical abuseat the girls' school she founded in South Africa "one of the most devastating,if not the most devastating experience of my life" -- seeming to make it allabout her, not the alleged victims. Still, my heart refused to harden.I recalled that when Winfrey opened the $40 million school in January, Icriticized her dismissal of inner-city kids here in the United States as onlyinterested in "an iPod or some sneakers." I thought that insult was gratuitousand wrong. But I couldn't argue with her basic point that South Africa hasdesperate poverty and a rudimentary educational infrastructure, and I applaudedher attempt to give a few special girls an opportunity beyond their wildestdreams.Now that the Oprah Winfrey Leadership Academy for Girls is back in the news, butfor all the wrong reasons, I've got to applaud the way Winfrey is handling thesituation. I have the sense that she wouldn't hesitate to do a little "enhancedinterrogation" of some staff members if that was what it took to get to thebottom of what really happened.A now-fired dormitory matron at the school, Virginia Mokgobo, 27, was arrestedlast week. She pleaded not guilty yesterday  to charges of assault, indecentassault and soliciting underage girls to perform indecent acts and was releasedon bail. Police said that at least seven students had submitted statements insupport of the allegations, but it was not known how many were alleged victimsof abuse and how many were witnesses."When I first heard about it, I spent about a half-hour going around my housecrying," Winfrey told South African journalists yesterday, speaking from Chicagoin a video news conference.All about Oprah? Not a fair question, when you recall that Winfrey has disclosedthat she was the victim of sexual abuse as a young girl. There's every reason tobelieve that the allegations of abuse at the school have, as Winfrey said,"shaken me to my core" -- not her celebrity core, but her real core.Since first hearing of the allegations in early October, she has flown to SouthAfrica twice. She put the school's headmistress on administrative leave and hassince said that she will not renew the woman's contract -- the first step inwhat she described at her news conference yesterday as "cleaning house from topto bottom."She apologized personally to angry parents, telling them, "I've disappointedyou. I'm so sorry. I'm so sorry." She has hired her own investigative team toassist South African authorities, and if someone is found guilty of the charges,I wouldn't be surprised if Winfrey offered to build a new prison.Of course, we don't yet know if any abuse actually took place. The magistratewho released Mokgobo on bail told her, "These kind of offenses are veryprevalent in this court" -- an acknowledgment that sexual abuse of girls,usually by male teachers, is far too common in South African schools. But in thecase of Winfrey's school, we don't yet know the specific allegations, much lesswhether there is evidence to support them.We know that students complained months ago about not being allowed to eat junkfood -- hardly a red flag. But we also know that some parents began complainingin March, just two months after the Leadership Academy opened, that the schoolwas too strict in  limiting visits, telephone calls and e-mail contact withtheir children. In retrospect, that might have been an important warning.Winfrey's school -- lavishly appointed, with state-of-the-art science labs and ayoga studio -- is meant to be an island of unlimited possibility. But isolatingthe school's 450 students so thoroughly from negative influences may also havekept out needed sunlight -- and may have allowed problems to fester in the dark.As Winfrey cleans house, I think she might want to restructure the model andallow more of an organic relationship between the school and its community.She gave the students her private phone number and e-mail address so they cancontact her immediately with problems and concerns. Winfrey may not be an experton running a school -- yet -- but I'm confident she understands the mostimportant thing: There is no more sacred trust than caring for other people'schildren.The writer will answer questions at 1 p.m. today at http://www.washingtonpost.com. His e-mail address is eugenerobinson@washpost.com