What's a manager to do when an employee has a personal crisis outside the officeand it affects the company, co-workers and the employee's productivity? And howdoes an employee handle a personal crisis when there is work to be done?Thoe are simple questions, but life is never simple.More employers, however, are taking on real life-at-work issues -- inparticular, the issue of employees who are victims of domestic abuse.Michele Weldon was a feature columnist at a large daily newspaper in the late1980s when the abuse by her husband, a well-respected lawyer, began. "And, likeall domestic-violence victims, I was completely ashamed, humiliated, andwouldn't share anything with co-workers," she said. "I was battling not only apersonal demon, wondering how did I get into this . . . but was also battlingthe personal demon of how can I be productive, how can I be creative now in themidst of such turmoil?"Often, after an incident, she would call in sick, even if no bruises werevisible: "I just couldn't handle walking through the newsroom."After she became a freelance writer in 1989, she said, "I would just change allmy appointments if there had been an incident."Employers are starting to figure out just how to help their employees in suchparalyzing and life-threatening situations, why that assistance can help theorganization.Pam Taylor, executive director of the Verizon Wireless call center in Laurel,has been privy to situations like Weldon's too many times."We've had several different employees approach us at different times"describing abuse that affected their productivity or their lifestyle, she said.Some victims just need a few days off to go to a court hearing. Others haveasked for a flexible schedule, or even a transfer to a different office."We generally work with these individuals to give them this room and to givethem job security," said Taylor. The last thing domestic-violence victims need-- especially if they have summoned the courage to leave a violent relationship-- is to lose their job.The help provided by Taylor and others like her comes back to help the company."They come back more loyal than before because we worked with them," Taylorsaid.That's not to say employers should consider themselves counselors, Taylor andWeldon both say. The company can, however, provide a safe and open environmentwhere employees will feel comfortable if they want to explain, for instance, whythey haven't been very productive lately."We know the workplace can be a place of solace, the one place a victim can bethroughout the day to regroup," said Stacey Pastel Dougan, assistant generalcounsel at Greenberg Traurig LLC, who works in the firm's Miami office. "But italso can be a trap, because that's where perpetrators know where to find thevictim."That makes workplaces the best place to provide information and resources toemployees, she added.Dougan implemented a workplace policy at her firm after representing a woman ontrial for killing her abuser."It was such a herculean task to help this woman -- and I'm with a huge lawfirm, with major resources," she said. So she subsequently went to the lawfirm's chief executive and asked if he would consider establishing a program forcompany employees who are in abusive relationshipsThrough her, the firm soon formed an alliance with the Florida Coalition AgainstDomestic Violence Alliance for Battered Women."We know our employees are dealing with these issues," Dougan said. "In anycorporation our size, you know you have a very significant percentage ofemployees that are affected" by domestic violence.In Miami-Dade County, employers of 50 or more people have to offer 30 days ofunpaid leave for employees experiencing domestic violence. Nationwide, about 5percent of companies have some sort of domestic-violence policy. And theVictims' Economic Security and Safety Act, legislation that was introduced lastyear, would require employers to provide emergency leave for victims of domesticviolence, stalking and sexual assault. It would also bar employers fromdiscriminating against victims in hiring, firing or promotions.Dougan acknowledges that abuse victims still need to perform at work, even withall the chaos in their lives. Her feeling is that it's up to the company and theemployee's manager to help the abused person perform -- and not victimize him orher further by demanding too much.She suggests employers sit down with employees who are dealing with disastrouslife situations and explain whatever performance problems are being perceived.Tell the employee that the organization will support her as she works througheverything -- but set some performance goals so there is still some focus onwork.Weldon, who left her husband in 1995, is now the author of two books, including"I Closed My Eyes," a memoir, and teaches writing at Northwestern University.Life, for her, has changed. During the abusive relationship, she said, "I didn'tperform at peak, and didn't produce as much as I could have in times of crisis.It does take a lot of emotional and mental energy that naturally subtracts fromwork."But with the help of her employer, Weldon has been able to move on. A turningpoint came when she wrote a column that mentioned her ex-husband. He called hereditors threatening the paper with a libel suit. Her employer's response? "Sueaway."E-mail Amy Joyce at joycea@washpost.com. Join her for an hour-long Live Onlinechat every Tuesday at 11 a.m. at www.washingtonpost.com.