American Catholics are famously indifferent to the directives of their leaders.They don't follow the rule book on much of anything: birth control, legalabortion, premarital sex, divorce.They wish, by a wide margin, that their bishops were talking more about socialjustice issues such as poverty and less about culture-war issues such asabortion. When asked what matters to them most about being Catholic, theyoverwhelmingly say the resurrection of Jesus, not Vatican authority or celibate,male priests.And aside from those who are paid to do so, very few American commentators canrally much enthusiasm for the imminent conclave in Rome and the usualhandicapping of the papabile."New Pope? I've Given Up Hope," wrote the historian Garry Wills, perhapsAmerica's most eviscerating disillusioned Catholic. It's as if Catholic identityhas become entirely disconnected from the institutional church. "I'm Catholic,"a friend of mine explained to me. "I just don't agree with anything the churchsays."During this historical caesura, when one pope has exited the stage and anotherhas yet to enter, why not then ask the obvious, blasphemous question? Whatdistinguishes these Christians, skeptical of authority and seeking meaning intheir own interpretations of the gospel message, from their brothers and sisterswho wholly reject the power of the pope? Bluntly put: Why are these Catholicsdifferent from Protestants?Over the past weeks, Roman Catholic intellectuals and pontificators have beenusing words like "schism" and "reform" to describe the current moment. Will anew pope, whoever he is, have the strength and savvy to hold together a churchthat is, in the words of a British Vatican correspondent, "imploding" and"crumbling"?The papal biographer George Weigel has been talking and writing about the needto "reform" the corrupt bureaucracy of the Curia, beginning, as he said in aninterview in the National Review, with "a change in attitude, not merely achange of structures." In the Huffington Post, the leftist theologian Hans Kungpredicts "many conflicts" between two living popes.In these and other comments there is a foreboding comparison to the events ofthe 16th century, which split the Christian West in two. After the ProtestantReformation, there were those who continued to believe in the authority of thepope and his men. And there were those who did not.The root of the word Protestant is, of course, "protest." It was given to MartinLuther's movement in 1529, at a moment when Luther and his allies were declaringtheir opposition to the Holy Roman Emperor Charles V. Luther was moved to hisprotest, of course, by what he saw as widespread corruption in the church.In 1517, in order to finish the construction of St. Peter's Basilica, the churchbegan selling the faithful first-class tickets to heaven: A contribution, theywere told, would get them an "indulgence," an official document that, accordingto one of the church's salesmen, would buy "a divine and immortal soul."The offenses committed by the institutional church were different 500 years agothan they are today: This was not the sexual abuse of innocents. But the root ofthe outrage is the same. The beloved institution has betrayed the faithful bytaking advantage of their innocence and trust. The betrayal is deepened by theleaders' insistence on their own authority and power. Luther's reforms (andCalvin's) led to a more unmediated Christianity, where what really mattered wasnot the Christian corporation but the individual's relationship with God.The church and the faithful may agree they need another Reformation now, butrealities of the modern religious marketplace prevent it.Five hundred years ago, a disillusioned Catholic faced a brutal choice: Hedenied his church on penalty of torture or death. Now, he can just slip away. Hemight be just as happy to be Protestant, finding comfort and familiarity amongthe Episcopalians, who have made recruiting lapsed Catholics a priority. Hemight find joy in the preaching of a non-denominational minister. He might findhimself among the "nones," practicing yoga and reading spiritual books,unaffiliated with any church tradition. The nones are the fastest-growingreligious group in the country.Or a disaffected Catholic might stay in the church and tell herself that thechurch is not its leaders but the billion people in it. She might stay for loveof the Mass and the sacraments, the Hail Mary and the Our Father. She might staybecause she keeps her grandmother's rosary in a desk drawer and fingers it whenone of her children is in trouble, or because she finds herself saying a prayerfor her parents in the middle of the night.Two-thirds of Catholics say they can't imagine being anything else, according toa 2011 survey, and an even higher number say that they value the Catholictradition of loyalty and dissent: loving the church while disagreeing with itsleadership. No matter who becomes pope, these Catholics would never say they'reProtestant.For Lisa Miller's previous columns, go to www.washingtonpost.com/onfaith.