Regardless of what happens in the courtroom, Paula Jones's sexual harassmentsuit against President Clinton has the Web in a whirl. Judging from a number ofpages on the Internet, most people believe Jones deserves her day in court.Little lavender ribbons, symbols of support for the Paula Jones Legal Fund, havepopped up in the unlikeliest places:The home page of Baseball Heaven, a rotisserie-league site, uses the ribbon topoint participants to Paula Jones's legal expense fund.Robb T. Koether, a professor of mathematics and computer science atHampden-Sydney College, attached a lavender ribbon to one of his online mathassignments."I think she deserves a chance to press her case," Koether says from his officeon the Virginia college's campus. "Even though Bill Clinton is president, heshouldn't be allowed to duck this case until he's out of office."Mike Smith's Politically Incorrect Sing-Along Page sports a pale purple loop.Smith is a Manassas resident who works for ORBCOMM, a Dulles-based satellitecompany. He's also an aspiring satirist. To that end, he's posted several songparodies penned for the occasion. The sharpest is sung to the tune of theBeatles' "Ticket to Ride."I think I'm gonna be sad, I think it's today, yeah,The girl that's driving me mad, Ain't going away.She wants a piece of my hide,She wants a piece of my hide,She wants a piece of my hide, and she don't care.She said that meeting with me, had caused her distress, yeah,For she would never be free, until I confess.You get the drift."I can't pass judgment on who said what," says Smith. "Pretty much the samepeople who supported Anita Hill have turned their backs on Paula Jones. I don'tthink Jones has been treated fairly."Carolyn C. Gargaro agrees. A Web site designer for a New Jersey Internet serviceprovider, Gargaro dreamed up the "Support Paula Jones Lavender Ribbon Campaign"last summer. Her pages lead you to the official Paula Jones Legal Fund and toCamille Paglia's pro-Jones rant in the January issue of Salon.Gargaro's not the first to use a ribbon. More than 140 Web sites employ thecolor-coded symbols. Online, ribbons are used to show support of just abouteverything -- from awareness of prostate cancer, to keeping Hanson off of TV, toremembering victims of church bombings, to kicking nitwits off the Net.There's even a "No More Ribbons Campaign Against Campaigns." Such is theleveling effect of the Web.But for some reason, there is little balance in the Paula Jones affair. In fact,there's a surprising paucity of support for Clinton on the Internet. Theofficial White House site lists his administration's accomplishments, but makesno mention of the Jones suit. Jokes about Clinton and Jones can be found allover the Internet. Washingtonpost.com, Court TV and other online publicationsmaintain files on the controversy.But visitors to the Web will mostly find Jones advocates and Clinton detractors.Why is that? Perhaps the Web really is living up to one of its promises, achance to lash out at big government and large media companies. "There's noother place where you can voice your opinion so publicly," Gargaro explains."The Internet is a great place for the common person to reach a lot of people."Linton Weeks can be reached at weekslwashpost.comGETTING THERE: Baseball Heaven athttp://www.greenepa.net/%7Epattrson/index.html; Robb T. Koether athttp://panther.hsc.edu/faculty/robbk; Politically Incorrect Sing-Along Page athttp://www.erols.com/mtsmith1; Support Paula Jones Lavender Ribbon Campaign athttp://www.gargaro.com/paulajones.html#real, and the Official White House siteat http://www.whitehouse.gov