On Thursday night, I'll watch when Washington visits Minnesota, just as I'veenjoyed the NFL since I was a boy 50 years ago. My father, my son and I havewatched the evolution of the NFL for generations. It has been the backlightingfor Thanksgivings and a cause for phone calls of delight or misery as recentlyas Sunday. But especially in the last couple of years, the deluge of ugly, evenhorrific news surrounding the NFL has become a source of shock, chagrin and evencritical self-examination for many of us.Where are we? Where is pro football? The NFL doesn't have a PR problem. It has areality problem. And it may be a grave one. Every month - and it seems every fewdays - the NFL is inundated by new, barely suspected revelations. What has theNFL become? Or is this what it has been for some time? Is the truth coming outof the shadows?The list is stunning. Its cumulative effect, not any one particular item, is thetrue confidence-shaking shock.The NFL is now the league of murder charges against Aaron Hernandez - gangexecution style. The NFL is the league of murder, then suicide, with JovanBelcher killing his girlfriend and then shooting himself in the head in aparking lot by his stadium as his coach and general manager watched.The NFL is the league of concussions, cover-ups for decades and in-housepseudo-science to discredit critical research. That is, until dementia, insanityand a $765 million settlement with its players hits the headlines. The NFL is a"League of Denial."The NFL is the league where future Hall of Famer Junior Seau, barely retired,shot himself in the heart so his brain could be studied by science to help provethat chronic traumatic encephalopathy is a core part of football, with risk ofbrain damage down to the smallest kids who play it. It's the league of DaveDuerson, 50, who also took a bullet-to-the-chest exit in 2011. CTE found. RayEasterling, 2012 suicide, CTE found. Six weeks ago, Paul Oliver, 29, committedsuicide in front of his wife and children.The NFL is the league of chronic degenerative injuries and grotesquely crippledstars, such as Jim McMahon, who can't remember his name just 25 years afterplaying quarterback in the Super Bowl.The NFL is the league of thug bullies such as suspended Miami Dolphins guardRichie Incognito, who allegedly extorted money, texted racist insults and madedeath threats to a younger teammate. It's the league of $15,000 stripper partiesin Las Vegas, paid for by intimidated, hazed rookies who don't make the trip butpay the check even if it busts them.The NFL is the league where, a year ago, greedy owners planned union-crushinglockouts and pulled it off. It's the league where owners gang up to enforcecollusion and punish Washington with a $36 million salary cap penalty because itdidn't go along.The NFL is the workaholic league of coaches who know 100-hour weeks are expected- to the point of self-destructive obsession. On Sunday, Gary Kubiak had a minorstroke and collapsed as he walked off the field; just two days earlier John Fox,who had heart surgery Monday, collapsed on an off day when he took a break toplay golf.The NFL is the league where famous teams and coaches, such as the Patriots andBill Belichick, are fined hundreds of thousands of dollars for cheating, where aSuper Bowl-winning coach (Sean Payton) is suspended for a year because hisassistants offered cash bounties to injure opposing players (more if they arecarried off the field). It's the league that suspends and fines BrandonMeriweather for intentional hits to the head only to have him respond that he'lljust switch to "ending careers" with hits to the knee.The NFL is the league where star quarterbacks face sexual harassment or rapecharges and a hero of the last Super Bowl has beaten a murder rap. The NFL isthe league that, to save money, fights in court to maintain a college-basedfeeder system for its pro talent, contributing to corruption of collegeathletics. The NFL is the league that used incompetent scab referees last yearto wrestle a few bucks from its real officials.The list seems endless, yet it never ends. The NFL is the league where you holdyour breath week to week, almost day to day, to find out what crime, whatbetrayal of trust, what warped values for the young the sport can becomeidentified with next. The NFL is the league where a nickname like "Redskins"looks comfortably at home.This is what we know, what we now have to digest, as individuals and as asports-fascinated culture that has raised the NFL to the status of "favoritegame" - by far.We already know these NFL shock headlines and more. What we haven't done yet isput it all together, look at the monstrosity that has risen before our eyes inthe past couple of years and weep. The NFL PR machine always has small-picturerebuttals for big-picture incriminations. That works one issue at a time. Butthe day comes - and may have arrived - when the correct response is simply,"Look at all of it. Explain away the entire pattern."If the NFL doesn't alter its culture, it won't be "America's game" forever. Profootball isn't going away any more than prize fighting has died. But statusamong sports can change - a lot. Is the NFL already so violent and infatuatedwith its own wealth that its phenomenal success will handicap it in facing thebreadth and depth of its problems and prevent it from properly protecting itslong-term future?On Thursday night, I'll still be watching. What my late father and I didn't knowwhen we cheered the sport we had both played was that, someday, a game thatlinked generations would also be the source of so many ugly questions.Like millions, I grew up as pro football grew up. It has been part of my life.But in time, I can gradually change.Can the NFL?thomas.boswell@washpost.comFor more by Thomas Boswell, visit washingtonpost.com/boswell.