6and olderDr. Seuss' The Lorax (PG).â[#x20ac][#x201a]There's little poetry in this 3-Danimated adaptation of Dr. Seuss's save-the-trees parable, but it's great funfor kids 6 and older. Twelve-year-old Ted lives in Thneedville, a walled citydevoid of plant life. Ted worships the lovely Audrey, a teen in love with theidea of real tufted truffula trees that used to grow there. They are no more,thanks to industrialization, and the evil Mr. O'Hare means to keep it that way.Ted rides his motorbike out of town to find the Once-ler, who can tell him whathappened to the trees. The Once-ler recounts how he invented the "thneed," amultipurpose scarf made of the tufts atop truffula trees. The Lorax, a furryspirit who spoke for the trees, tried to persuade the Once-ler and his greedyfamily to ease up, but they stripped the valley bare. Now the Once-ler regretswhat he did.THE BOTTOM LINE: The bad guy O'Hare has two goons who loom large and might scarekids younger than 6. But nothing is really too scary here, even in 3-D.PG-13John Carter.â[#x20ac][#x201a]This tale of a 19th-century American on Mars shouldtransport teens who love science-fiction and fantastical fables. John Carter isa Confederate veteran of the Civil War. He escapes capture by Army officers, whowant him to help fight the Apache. In a cave, he finds an amulet that transportshim to Mars, or Barsoom, as its inhabitants call it. Carter is captured by theleader of the tall, green Tharks and learns that a civil war is raging there. Heeventually befriends the Tharks, and tries to arrange an alliance with thehumanoid Heliumites, led by Tardos Mors and his beautiful daughter, DejahThoris. Carter must save her and Mars/Barsoom.THE BOTTOM LINE: The film includes battle scenes and other mayhem. The fightinghints at severed limbs. Flashbacks to Carter's 19th-century life on Earth implythat his wife burned to death after an attack on their cabin. Hard-fisted fightstake place when he's forcibly conscripted by the U.S. Army. There is mild sexualinnuendo.Tyler Perry's Good Deed.â[#x20ac][#x201a]Teens who like more intimate personaldramas might be pulled into Tyler Perry's world. He plays Wesley Deeds, thesoft-spoken CEO of a software company. He lives with his fiancee, who findsWesley sweet but predictable. His brother, Walter, is a loose cannon who worksat the family business. Their mother favors Wesley and wishes Walter would shutup. Lindsey is a single mom in dire financial straits who works on Deeds'soffice building's cleaning crew. She was evicted and now lives in her car. Thisis no life for her 6-year-old daughter, Ariel. Wesley becomes more involved thanhe expected.The bottom line: The movie includes one semi-explicit sexual situation that isfairly steamy for a PG-13. The script features rare midrange profanity andsexual slang. Characters get into a fistfight and make references topromiscuity. In one upsetting scene, family services personnel take Lindsey'sdaughter away.RSilent House.â[#x20ac][#x201a]High-schoolers 16 and older might be gripped bythe gimmick behind "Silent House," which is that the entire film was made in oneshot with no edits. As the film opens, Sarah's relaxing on the waterside rocksnext to a rambling old summer house that her father and uncle are cleaning inorder to sell. Once inside, with only flashlights and lanterns, mysteriousnoises start to freak Sarah out. She tries to hide from the stranger in thehouse who is committing acts of violence.THE BOTTOM LINE: The film shows a lot of blood, but the actual on-screenviolence involves more sound than graphic visuals. Characters use occasionalprofanity and drink beer. SPOILER ALERT: Although it is never graphic or highlyspecific, the film implies strongly and in eery flashbacks sexual abuseinvolving a pre-adolescent girl and men.Being Flynn.â[#x20ac][#x201a]College students - in particular those who loveliterature and tales of tortured writers - may find "Being Flynn" engrossing andrevelatory, despite the film's dark and depressive tone. It is far too profaneand graphic for under-17s. The movie recounts how Nick became reacquainted withhis father, Jonathan, while working at a homeless shelter. Jonathan, encounteredafter 18 years of no contact, is a grandiose, narcissistic blowhard who thinkseverything he scribbles is a literary masterpiece. In fact, he is mentally illand an alcoholic. Young Nick fears he'll turn into his father.The bottom line: Scenes at the homeless shelter, depicting drunken, strung-out,sick, lice-infested and sometimes combative men are disturbing and raw. Thereare a couple of graphic sexual situations and some nonsexual nudity. Charactersuse steaming profanity. An eventual suicide is strongly implied but not shown.We see thugs beating up homeless men, but not graphically.Wanderlust.â[#x20ac][#x201a]Jennifer Aniston and Paul Rudd are well cast in thiscleverly off-center social comedy. It's not for under-17s and is a hard R.George and Linda are a loving but impractical New York couple whose financialsituation craters. They hit the road and land at a bed-and-breakfast run by ahippie commune. They're quickly pulled into the commune's truth-tellingencounter groups, improvisational hootenannies, vegan meals, pot smoking,hallucinogenic tea and free love.The bottom line: The R reflects nudity, strong profanity, sexual slang, lessgraphic sexual situations, drug use and drinking.goingoutguide@washingtonpost.comHorwitz is a freelance writer.