For decades, few people noticed that legislators in Providence had deletedcrucial language from Rhode Island state law in 1980. It wasn't until a 2003court case that police, to their chagrin, discovered that they couldn't preventprostitutes and their customers from engaging in commercial exchange.For the next six years, until legislators corrected their error, the oldestprofession was not a crime in Rhode Island - and public health and public safetysubstantially improved as a result, according to a new working paper from theNational Bureau of Economic Research. The statewide incidence of gonorrhea amongwomen declined by39 percent and the number of rapes reported to police in thestate declined by 31 percent, according to the paper.The study -- by Baylor University's Scott Cunningham and Manisha Shah of theUniversity of California at Los Angeles - contributes to an impassioned,long-running debate among advocates for women's rights about prostitution. Theirwork appears to be the first quantitative evidence that removing criminalpenalties for prostitutes can reduce violence against women and curtail sexuallytransmitted infections in society - and dramatically so.Opponents argue that legal prostitution would encourage traffickers to kidnapwomen and girls into lives of sexual slavery. Shah and Cunningham did notexplore this question in their paper due to a lack of data.Operation RubdownLawmakers revised the state statute on prostitution in 1980, concerned that itwas overly broad and could infringe on First Amendment freedoms. They went toofar, accidentally removing the section defining the act itself as a crime.Associated activities such as streetwalking, pimping and trafficking remainedillegal.Since prostitutes couldn't walk the streets, they had few opportunities to takeadvantage of the mistake until the advent of the Internet gave them another wayto advertise. In 2003, police in Providence raided two spas in a sting calledOperation Rubdown. The women were staying off the street, and a judge ruled intheir favor. Legislators revised the law in 2009.There are a number of reasons to think that making prostitution legal mightimprove working conditions for prostitutes. If they were having a problem with aclient, they could threaten to call the police, reducing the risk of physicalviolence. Prostitutes could also demand that their clients use condoms.Additionally, according to supporters of legal prostitution, unlawfulstreetwalkers have no opportunity to vet their clients before their hurried,clandestine encounters. A regular market for sex, whether online or in abrick-and-mortar establishment, could solve that problem.Opponents dispute these theories, arguing that prostitution is inherentlyviolent and dangerous, whether legal or not.Shah and Cunningham did not consider these questions specifically; instead, theyexamined the consequences of decriminalization for the state as a whole. The twoeconomists found that more women, particularly white and Asian women, enteredprostitution and that the price of their services fell. In addition to the lowerrate of gonorrhea infections among women, Shah and Cunningham estimated thatdecriminalizing prostitution prevented 824 rapes that would have been otherwisereported to police, and presumably many more that would not have been reportedin any case.The decline in the number of rapes was so large that Cunningham and Shah feltobliged to examine their data with three separate statistical methods, but theeffect persisted. The authors were eventually persuaded that their result wasnot a fluke and that imposing criminal sanctions on prostitutes and theirclients might cause violence against women. "The human costs are so big, if thisis in fact a very real causal effect," Cunningham said. "I think we haveconvinced ourselves that we have done everything we can do to rule outalternative explanations."Is prostitution rape?Possibly the most disturbing and surprising implication of these results is thatmen who commit rape would simply find a prostitute if doing so were lessexpensive. Cunningham and Shah considered, and ruled out, several other possibleexplanations for the decline in rape. The economists wondered, for example,whether police officers working on massage parlor stings had been reassigned torape investigations, but it seemed they had not.Melissa Farley, a feminist, psychologist and trenchant critic of prostitution,argued that Cunningham and Shah simply misunderstood the nature of paid sex.Prostitutes are often victims of abuse, whether it is perpetrated by johns orpimps, she said. If so, then the decrease in rapes reported to police does notreally represent a decrease in the total amount of violence."Women in prostitution generally describe it as paid rape. That's what it feelslike to them," said Farley, who said the study embodies a "reactionaryworldview."Farley, along with major international feminist organizations such as EqualityNow and the Coalition Against Trafficking in Women, worried that legalizingprostitution would make it easier for traffickers to operate and that many ofthe new prostitutes who appeared in Rhode Island between 2003 and 2009 wereunwilling participants."Demand fuels trafficking," said Kristen Berg, Equality Now's traffickingprogram officer. "With the demand for commercial sex, there's an incentive fortraffickers to traffic women and girls to these locations."Ronald Weitzer, a sociologist at George Washington University, disagreed,arguing that legal prostitution would reduce the financial incentive fororganized crime to risk running afoul of law enforcement by kidnapping andtransporting girls. "When something is prohibited, it allows organized crime togain a foothold," he said, comparing the sex market to the markets for alcoholduring Prohibition or for marijuana and other drugs today.A legal dilemmaA model developed by Sweden and copied elsewhere offers a kind of compromise:Prostitutes are not criminals, but their clients are. This is the approachfavored by Donna Hughes, a professor at the University of Rhode Island and aneyewitness to the inadvertent decriminalization.Hughes, like Farley and Berg, views prostitutes as victims, not criminals, butshe was forced to make a difficult decision when Rhode Island began to debateamending the law.The Nordic model, as Sweden's regime is known, was a political non-starter inRhode Island. Hughes, a prominent scholar of trafficking, was forced to choosebetween the status quo and imposing criminal sanctions on prostitutes. Sheeventually threw her support to the latter option."The situation was so horrible in Rhode Island that the pimps and traffickerswere operating with absolute impunity," she said.Hughes's story shows why the debate over prostitution can become so contentious.In practice, the distinction between criminals and victims is often unclear.Many prostitutes and their advocates dislike both labels. They objectstrenuously to the view that they are not in the industry through their ownchoice but through manipulation or coercion."They have heard that, and they laugh at it," said Mike Kiselica, a Providencelawyer who represented massage parlors and their prostitutes duringdecriminalization. "The frontline workers, the girls, they were free to movearound and would do so if one of the other places offered them a more attractiveworking environment or a better clientele," he said.max.ehrenfreund@washpost.comExcerpted from Wonkblog, at washingtonpost.com/wonkblog.