Joe Paterno was a liar, there's no doubt about that now. He was also a cover-upartist. If the Freeh report is correct in its summary of the Penn State childmolestation scandal, the public Paterno of the last few years was a work offiction. In his place is a hubristic, indictable hypocrite.In the last interview before his death, Paterno insisted as strenuously as adying man could that he had absolutely no knowledge of a 1998 police inquiryinto child molestation accusations against his assistant coach, Jerry Sandusky.This has always been the critical point in assessing whether Paterno and otherPenn State leaders enabled Sandusky's crimes.If Paterno knew about '98, then he wasn't some aging granddad who was deceived,but a canny and unfeeling power broker who put protecting his reputation aheadof protecting children.If he knew about '98, then he understood the import of graduate assistant MikeMcQueary's distraught account in 2001 that he witnessed Sandusky assaulting aboy in the Penn State showers.If he knew about '98, then he also perjured himself before a grand jury.Guilty.Paterno didn't always give lucid answers in his final interview conducted withThe Washington Post eight days before his death, but on this point he wascategorical and clear as a bell. He pled total, lying ignorance of the '98investigation into a local mother's claim Sandusky had groped her son in theshower at the football building. How could Paterno have no knowledge of this, Iasked him?"Nobody knew," he said.Everybody knew.Never heard a rumor?"I never heard a thing," he said.He heard everything."If Jerry's guilty, nobody found out till after several incidents."Not a whisper? How is that possible?Paterno's account of himself is flatly contradicted in damning detail by exFBI-director Louis Freeh's report. In a news conference Thursday, Freeh chargedthat Paterno, along with athletic director Timothy Curley, university presidentGraham Spanier and vice president Gary Schultz, engaged in a cover-up, "anactive agreement of concealment."Paterno was not only aware of the '98 investigation but followed it "closely"according to Freeh. As did the entire leadership of Penn State. E-mails andconfidential notes by Schultz about the progress of the inquiry prove it."Behavior - at best inappropriate @ worst sexual improprieties," Schultz wrote."At min - Poor Judgment." Schultz also wrote, "Is this opening of pandora'sbox?" and "Other children?"A May 5, 1998 e-mail from Curley to Schultz and Spanier was titled "Joe Paterno"and it says, "I have touched base with the coach. Keep us posted. Thanks."A second e-mail dated May 13 1998 from Curley to Schultz is titled "Jerry" andit says, "Anything new [in] this department? Coach is anxious to know where itstands."There is only one aspect in which the Freeh report does not totally destroyPaterno's pretension of honesty. It finds no connection between the '98investigation and Sandusky's resignation from Paterno's staff in '99. The reportalso suggests that Paterno genuinely believed the police had found no evidenceof a crime.Paterno can be forgiven for his initial denial, for refusing to believe hiscolleague was a child molester in '98. What's not forgivable is his sustaineddetermination to lie from 2001 onward.This is how Paterno testified in January 2011 before the grand jury. He wasasked: "Other than the [2001] incident that Mike McQueary reported to you, doyou know in any way, through rumor, direct knowledge or any other fashion, ofany other inappropriate sexual conduct by Jerry Sandusky with young boys?"Paterno replied, "I do not know of anything else that Jerry would be involved inof that nature, no. I do not know of it."Paterno's family continued to insist Thursday via a statement that Paterno'saccount was not inconsistent with the facts, and he "always believed, as we do,that the full truth should be uncovered."But Paterno was no more interested in the full truth than Walt Disney.In his final interview, he played the faux-naif who insisted he had "never heardof rape and a man." Who hadn't followed up on McQueary's report out ofsqueamishness. Who was wary of interfering in university "procedure." Whoinsisted it was unfair to put Penn State on trial along with a pedophile, andthat this was not "a football scandal."In fact, in 2001 Paterno had every reason to suspect Sandusky was a serialdefiler of children. In fact, Paterno was not reluctant to interfere inuniversity procedure; he helped dictate it. In fact, this was a footballscandal. The crimes were committed by a former assistant football coach in thefootball building. Ten boys, and 45 criminal counts, at least five of themmolested on the Penn State campus after 1998 when Paterno committed the awfulmisjudgment of continuing to allow Sandusky to bring boys to his locker room, sosure was he that Sandusky was "a good guy."We can't un-rape and un-molest those boys. We can't remove them from the showersand seize them back from the hands of Sandusky. That should have been anunrelenting source of rage and grief to Paterno. Yet in perhaps the mostdamaging observation of all, the Freeh report accuses Paterno and his colleaguesof "a striking lack of empathy" for the victims.Everything else about Paterno must now be questioned; other details about himbegin to nag. You now wonder if his self-defense was all an exercise in sealingoff watertight compartments, leaving colleagues on the outside to drown. Youwonder if he performed a very neat trick in disguising himself as a modest andbenevolent man. The subtle but constant emphasis on his Ivy League education,the insistence that Penn State football had higher standards, now looks morelike rampant elitism.Undeniably, for many years Paterno did virtuous work at Penn State. His combinedwinning records and graduation rates were indeed much higher than those of hispeers.It's a relevant part of the Penn State affair and worth stating, becauseit contributed to the institutional response. The Freeh report cited "numerousindividual failings," but it also found "weaknesses of the University's culture,governance, administration, compliance policies and procedures for protectingchildren." As other commentators have rightly observed, Paterno's huge successeshelped form those potholes. He was the university's culture.He was the self-appointed arbiter of character and justice in State College. Hehad decided Sandusky was "a good man" in 1998, and he simply found it too hardto admit he made a fatal misjudgment and gave a child molester the officenearest to his. He was more interested in protecting a cardboard cutout legacythan the flesh and blood of young men.The only explanation I can find for this "striking lack of empathy" isself-absorption. In asking how a paragon of virtue could have behaved like sucha thoroughly bad guy, the only available answer is that Paterno fell prey to thesingle most corrosive sin in sports: the belief that winning on the field makesyou better and more important than other people.jenkinss@washpost.comFor previous columns by Sally Jenkins, visit washingtonpost.com/jenkins.More coverage from Washington Post Sports:Freeh report reveals 'total disregard' for victimshttp://www.washingtonpost.com/sports/colleges/freeh-report-on-penn-states-handling-of-jerry-sanduskys-child-sex-abuse-reveals-total-disregard-for-victims/2012/07/12/gJQAfVoMfW_story.htmlDocument: Read the full Freeh reportSandusky found guilty on nearly all counts of child sex abusePaterno's final interviewhttp://www.washingtonpost.com/sports/colleges/joe-paternos-first-interview-since-the-penn-state-sandusky-scandal/2012/01/13/gIQA08e4yP_story.html_blank| Excerpts from interviewVideo: Paterno speaks following Sandusky allegations_blank_blankJenkins discusses her interview with Paterno_blankPoll: Does Penn State football deserve the NCAA's death penalty?http://www.washingtonpost.com/blogs/early-lead/post/does-penn-state-football-deserve-the-death-penalty/2012/07/12/gJQAM50SfW_blog.html#commentsEugene Robinson: Joe Paterno's shame