It's the moment that will change the law of the land. After months of secretdeliberations, the justices of the Supreme Court have reached a decision in acase that has been in litigation for years. With complete silence in the whitemarble courtroom, a black-robed justice begins to announce the majority opinion.Each justice stamps the moment with his or her distinctive style. Some arelong-faced and somber. Some speak off-the-cuff. Some are professorial,explaining the nuances of the law to the spectators on the velvet benches. Somelet a little whimsy fly."It's technical and complex," Justice Anthony M. Kennedy said as he began toexplain a death penalty ruling last week, and then quipped, "even by ourstandards."A justice's announcement, which may culminate months of negotiation andrewriting among the high court nine, gives the author a chance to emphasize--outloud--what he or she thinks important. It is standard to present a summary ofthe key points in the lengthy written opinion that will be immediatelydistributed to the press and public. But from the tall mahogany bench, justicesoften add a personal touch.Geography buff that he is, Chief Justice William H. Rehnquist will comment onwhere the dispute arose. In a recent Texas drug search case, the chief recountedthat a Border Patrol agent had been inspecting luggage at a federal checkpointin Sierra Blanca, which Rehnquist helpfully noted is 80 miles east of El Paso.When criminal defendants have challenged the constitutionality of their cases,Rehnquist, as well as Justice Antonin Scalia, is apt to direct attention to thegruesome details of the murder or rape that began the dispute.A year ago, Justice Sandra Day O'Connor declared that students may sue forsevere and pervasive sexual harassment by other students, observing that JusticeKennedy was predicting schools would be inundated with lawsuits and that thedecision would teach "little Johnny a perverse lesson in federalism." No, thecourt's first female justice said tersely, the decision would make sure "thatlittle Mary may attend class."On the last day of the term last year, when the court issued three 5 to 4decisions curtailing Congress's power to make its laws binding on the states,the dramatic bench announcements went on for nearly an hour. First, the authorsof the three rulings--Kennedy, Scalia and Rehnquist--forcefully delivered theiropinions for the court."Congress has vast power but not all power," Kennedy declared.Then, one by one, Justices David H. Souter, Stephen G. Breyer and John PaulStevens hammered home their dissenting views. Reading from a prepared text inhis characteristic midwestern twang, Stevens claimed the majority was "much likea mindless dragon that indiscriminately chews gaping holes in federal statutes."Usually the announcements last only a few suspenseful minutes. In a long-goneera, the justices used to read the whole opinion word-for-word--an enterprisethat could take hours and sometimes days. That changed in the 1930s when ChiefJustice Charles Evans Hughes, who believed it was a waste of the court's time,began encouraging summaries. And for the most part these bench announcements,which come fast and furious in the months of May and June, now are kept to thepoint.Justice Ruth Bader Ginsburg, who sits erect in her seat at the far right end ofthe bench, reads from a prepared text that she then makes available to thepress. In careful, measured cadence, Ginsburg repeats the facts, the law and theresolution of the case, eschewing any levity.At the other end of the bench is Breyer, who hunches over his opinion,improvising, offering casual asides to the audience and assuming the familiaraura of a professor before a group of undergraduates. When Justice ClarenceThomas reads from his majority opinion, the audience has a chance to hear thedeep, booming voice of the one justice who rarely speaks up during oralarguments.While all of the justices today take advantage of their moment on center stage,the late Justice Byron R. White (1962-93) remains notorious for his rejection ofthe ritual. He would brusquely announce that a lower court ruling had beenaffirmed or reversed, harrumph, and add, "for reasons on file with the clerk."Full Court Press runs on the first Monday of the month. Joan Biskupic appearsFriday mornings on washingtonpost.com to answer questions about the SupremeCourt.CORRECTION-DATE: May 2, 2000CORRECTION:Because of an editing error, an article May 1 incorrectly described Byron R.White. He is a retired Supreme Court justice.