Okay, men, I double dog dare y'all to do it here.Come to this military conference, look into the eyes of the commander of awarship or the strike officer who was in charge of deploying Tomahawk cruisemissile tests or the major christened "The Angel of Death" by an Afghan general,and tell these women that you want to decide their reproductive future.Go ahead, Rush, and see if you have the nerve to call any of these women inuniform sluts for using contraceptives to plan their families arounddeployments.I dare you.This was my first thought when I walked into a Maryland ballroom Monday filledwith about 1,700 U.S. servicewomen from all five branches of the military.Hundreds of uniforms, stars, bars and medals, including at least a dozenkind-of-billowy maternity uniforms, and about 1,700 ramrod straight backs.The Sea Service Leadership Association said this is the largest gathering ofmilitary women ever. It offers an opportunity for those in uniform to speak notonly about being service members but also about being women."Usually, we find ourselves in the minority," said Navy Cmdr. Nicole L.Maver-Shue, who is president of the association that put on the conference.For retired Air Force Brig. Gen. Wilma Vaught, one of the military's mostdecorated women, that sea of uniformed women was an amazing sight. It was a bitdifferent when she was one woman with 3,300 men in Guam or one of the only womenin her military unit in Saigon in the 1960s.She looked at one of the few men in the ballroom and said she felt like sayingto him: "Do you feel like you're a minority? Because that's how it felt in everymeeting I went to."The association gave Vaught a lifetime achievement award. And because it waswomen awarding a woman, the presenter said, the general was presented with ajeweled brooch "rather than just a pyramid for her desk."Vaught, an American pioneer for women in the military, is a living example ofhow far women in the military have come. The women applauding her were pilots,warship commanders, rear admirals and platoon leaders.No men should be lecturing these women about any aspect of their reproductivelives, Vaught said."As I watch this whole thing, the talk about sex - contraception and abortionand all these other things - I look at legislators, who are majority male,"Vaught told me. "They're perfectly willing to vote and take away" rights thatshould be between women and their doctors.Of course, military women do have one advantage over their civiliancounterparts: their health insurance, Tricare, covers their contraception.America's active-duty military is nearly 15 percent female. And it's the kind ofplace where hair is pulled back and gender is rarely discussed."It's not like I actively hide it. But you just don't put it out there, youdon't talk about female things, and you don't want to make waves," said AirForce Maj. Allison Black, the first female AC-130H Spectre navigator to openfire in combat. She became known as the Angel of Death in Afghanistan.Back home in Fairfax Station, the Angel of Death has two sons, 4 and 6, andcoaches their T-ball team. She doesn't make a big deal about juggling herparenting duties with her day job, and neither do other women in uniform.This conference, which is in its 25th year and gets bigger each year, is the oneplace where they feel comfortable talking about not only their careers but alsoabout being women and mothers."We're the only military conference that has a lactation room," Maver-Shuedeclared.Outside in the hallways, I talked to women about their biggest concerns. A groupof Marines was talking about the challenge women can sometimes pose to oneanother. "Us! We can be our own worst enemies!" one Marine said."We're the few, the proud. And there's so few of us women, we look out forourselves but not always each other," another said.Over at a Coast Guard clique, the talk was of the uniforms, how the sizes thatmost women need are really hard to find. And how full-sleeve tattoos are okaybut nail polish isn't."Yes, there are big issues: sexual assault, pregnancy is a big one, work/lifebalance," Maver-Shue said. "But here we get to talk about them and work to solvethem from a woman's perspective."There's no name-calling, no frat-boy pranks set to raunchy music while talkingabout intrusive medical procedures.It's just women who can talk Howitzers, missile deployments, child care and nailpolish without worry.dvorakp@washpost.comPetula Dvorak will respond to your comments about this column at noon Tuesday atwashingtonpost.com/dvorak, where you can read her previous columns.