Does Air Force Lt. Col. Jeffrey Krusinski deserve an apology?That's what some Krusinski apologists demanded after a sexual assault chargeagainst him was dropped last month.No, Krusinski is not "Poppa Panda Sexy Pants," the nom de bedroom given to ArmyBrig. Gen. Jeffrey A. Sinclair by one of his sex objects/military subordinates.Gen. Sexy Pant's lurid court-martial is thisweek's military sex scandal.Krusinski is the guy at the center of a military sex scandal from a few monthsback. (I know, it gets confusing.)Let me refresh your memory: Krusinski is the 41-year-old officer who was incharge of the Air Force's office of  sexual assault prevention until he wasarrested this past Cinco de Mayo on, um,  a sexual assault charge.Arlington County police said he allegedly groped a woman's breasts and buttocksoutside a tired strip of bars in Crystal City, within walking distance of thePentagon. A morning-after witness told me that the woman hit him in the facewith her cellphone, explaining the cuts you saw on his mug shot.The whole world saw that mug shot in the days after he was arrested. And therewas an upside to the case: The irony of a military dude in charge of sexualassault prevention being charged with committing that very crime put pressure onthe Pentagon to acknowledge the military's sexual assault problem and pledge todo something about it.But on the day his trial was supposed to start last month, Commonwealth'sAttorney Theo Stamos dropped the sexual assault charge, officially a charge of"sexual battery." Authorities now intend to pursue a charge of assault andbattery, without the sexual component.Aha! Some readers e-mailed me gloating."With Arlington drop of sex charges, will you apologize to military or retractstory?" a  reader tweeted in one of the more civilized messages I received inthis campaign.In a statement, Krusinski's attorney, Barry Coburn, said that the sexual assaultcharge was the only reason that his client made the news and that he hopes achange in the charge will give us all pause before we judge.Seriously? These folks are acting as if it's all over, with Krusinski free togo. Oopsie.Not even close. And, no, I won't be offering any mea culpas to Krusinski.Krusinski is entitled to his day in court and the presumption that he isinnocent until proved guilty. But the assault charge is a Class 1 misdemeanor inVirginia, and it carries the same punishment - up to a year in jail and steepfines - as the sexual battery charge.Stamos said that after a thorough review of the case, prosecutors determinedthat - in light of the way the sexual battery statute is written and the wayappellate rulings have interpreted it - the assault charge is more appropriate."The nuances of things may not be evidenced right away," Stamos told me. "Itwasn't as clear in the fog of war, so to speak."Stamos said it wasn't that the woman's story changed, although she wouldn'tcomment on the physical contact that allegedly occurred. A new trial date isexpected to be set next week.It seriously scares me to hear that anyone would think all is well simplybecause the legal nature of the lieutenant colonel's situation has changed. Oh,it's only an alleged assault! That's not so bad.Come on.Just to make it clear. It's not okay to grope, grab, rape or assault a woman.(Or a man, for that matter.)Inappropriate conduct by those in power is the scourge of our nation's largestemployer - the military. The unseemly conduct by the lewd, weak and power-hungryundermines and insults the brave and honorable work of the men and women in thearmed services.Thousands of service members have been killed or injured in ghastly ways doingtheir jobs. There are mothers who jump out of airplanes and fathers who bidfarewell to family and home again and again in the name of serving theircountry. Meanwhile, we've got Gen. Poppa Panda Sexy Pants texting his lust andtrysting all over the globe with subordinates; instructors who rapaciouslyassault their students in flight school; and recruiters making moves on teens atthe Army info table.How dare they?In the Air Force alone, under Krusinski's preventive care, 792 sexual assaultcases were reported last year. Throughout the armed services, a recent surveyestimated that there were 26,000 cases of unwanted sexual contact last year.Thanks to Krusinski's arrest, the nation paid closer attention to congressionalhearings on sexual assault in the military. At those hearings, some lawmakerseven raised the idea of giving civilian prosecutors the power to investigatesexual abuse and other serious crimes in the military.And thanks to Krusinski's arrest, the Air Force appointed Maj. Gen. MargaretWoodward to replace him and gave her a larger staff to tackle the problem ofsexual assault.It's no mystery that sexual abuse is almost always more about power than it isabout sex -  or that violence and sexual assault are usually intertwined.The Arlington police officer who answered a 911 call for help from a woman in abar parking lot showed up, interviewed the woman, noted the scene, arrested andhandcuffed Krusinski, and booked him on an assault charge.That's still news. What he is accused of doing is still wrong, and it stillgives us reason to thank Krusinski for finally, truly, making us take a closerlook at the abuse of power and sex in the ranks of our nation's protectors.petula.dvorak@washpost.comTwitter: @petuladTo read previous columns, go to washingtonpost.com/dvorak.