The release of a report on the child sexual abuse scandal involving former PennState football assistant Jerry Sandusky led to countless re-evaluationsThursday, most notably of Joe Paterno, the Nittany Lions' late coach. Thereport's details - a timeline of who knew what, when they knew it, and whatsteps were and weren't taken - shook all sorts of corners in college athletics,with plenty of room for introspection."I think when something like this happens, as shocking as it is, we've all gotto take a minute to look upon how we can prevent it, how we would deal with anyaccusations that would come to light early on," said Norwood Teague, the newathletic director at Minnesota who previously held the same job at VirginiaCommonwealth.That process will happen in different places at different paces. _blankIn astatement, the NCAA said it was too early to determine whether information inthe report, compiled by investigators led by former FBI director Louis Freeh,could lead to sanctions against the athletic department. Penn State still mustanswer questions contained _blankin a letter, sent by NCAA President Mark Emmertlast November, regarding "compliance with institutional control and ethicspolicies," according to the NCAA's statement.But even with the dramatic information the report revealed - including Paterno'sknowledge of an investigation into former defensive coordinator Jerry Sandusky'simproper behavior in 1998 - there may not be evidence that would cause futureproblems for Penn State's athletic department."The information in there about child sexual assault, those aren't currentlyNCAA rules violations," said Michael L. Buckner, an attorney whose firmfrequently represents schools in NCAA cases. "The Freeh report documented -generally, philosophically - a lack of control. But did it lack institutionalcontrol as defined in the NCAA manual?"The fallout from Freeh's report wasn't contained just to Penn State, either.Officials  for Nike, the official supplier of Penn State athletic equipment andapparel, announced they would rename the Joe Paterno Child Development Center onits Beaverton, Ore., campus. Nike founder Phil Knight, an emotional and staunchsupporter who passionately defended Paterno at his memorial service,_blankissued a statement Thursday that showed the impact of Freeh's report."According to the investigation, it appears Joe made missteps that led toheartbreaking consequences," Knight said. "I missed that Joe missed it, and I amextremely saddened on this day. My love for Joe and his family remains."The Sandusky case, and the lack of urgent response by a number of Penn Stateofficials as outlined in Freeh's report, has brought the question: How couldthis happen? But athletic department officials at several schools said Thursdaythey have long had procedures in place for reporting suspected crimes eitherinvolving athletic department staff or taking place on campus."We had policies and procedures and flow charts, and we were aware of all thenecessary things we had to do legally even before the whole Penn State case,"said Tom O'Connor, the athletic director at George Mason. "It's a priority withus. It's always been a priority with us. Penn State didn't trigger it, becausewe always felt we had the right policies in place."Just five weeks after a grand jury indicted Sandusky on 40 counts of sex crimesin November, the Maryland university system put into place _blanka policyoutlining exactly what university employees and students are to do if theysuspect child abuse or neglect.Through a spokesman, Maryland Athletic Director Kevin Anderson declined tocomment for this story - both in his capacity overseeing the Terrapins' athleticdepartment and in his role as the new president of the National Association ofCollege Directors of Athletics. But the policy mandates that Maryland employeesreport suspected incidents of abuse both to the police or social services and tothe school president's office. Failure to do so can result in "discipline forprofessional misconduct, up to and including termination."Anderson's predecessor at Maryland, Debbie Yow, said that in her final few yearsin College Park, all returning athletes were asked a question in an annualsurvey: "Has there been any inappropriate touching by an administrator orcoach?" North Carolina State, where Yow is now the athletic director, includesthe same question on its survey.N.C. State and other schools conduct training before each academic year to makesure coaches and administrators are familiar with their responsibilities toreport suspected crimes on campus under the _blankClery Act, a federal statutethat requires colleges and universities to keep and disclose information aboutcrime. Minnesota's Teague said in most departments in which he has worked, "themost important speaker you have from the outside is campus police."The issues surrounding the Penn State situation remained incendiary even as theFreeh report landed. Officials at several schools - including Virginia, VirginiaTech and Maryland - either declined to comment or didn't respond to messagesThursday. Some officials expressed a reluctance to review their own policiespublicly lest they appear to be criticizing Penn State or Paterno, who died inJanuary.Paterno's family issued a statement Thursday that said, in part: "It can beargued that Joe Paterno should have gone further. He should have pushed hissuperiors to see that they were doing their jobs. We accept this criticism."svrlugab@washpost.comMore coverage from Washington Post Sports:Freeh report reveals 'total disregard' for victimshttp://www.washingtonpost.com/sports/colleges/freeh-report-on-penn-states-handling-of-jerry-sanduskys-child-sex-abuse-reveals-total-disregard-for-victims/2012/07/12/gJQAfVoMfW_story.htmlDocument: Read the full Freeh reportSandusky found guilty on nearly all counts of child sex abusePaterno's final interviewhttp://www.washingtonpost.com/sports/colleges/joe-paternos-first-interview-since-the-penn-state-sandusky-scandal/2012/01/13/gIQA08e4yP_story.html_blank| Excerpts from interviewVideo: Paterno speaks following Sandusky allegations_blank_blankJenkins discusses her interview with Paterno_blankPoll: Does Penn State football deserve the NCAA's death penalty?http://www.washingtonpost.com/blogs/early-lead/post/does-penn-state-football-deserve-the-death-penalty/2012/07/12/gJQAM50SfW_blog.html#commentsEugene Robinson: Joe Paterno's shame