I am pleased to report that the members of the Fairfax County School Board didtheir homework. Most of them read the book -- all 983 pages. And I am happy tosay that this week's seminar, in which the board debated whether to ban KenFollett's "The Pillars of the Earth" from school libraries, was spirited andrespectful.But the bottom line is that by a 7 to 4 vote, the board said that only certainchildren will be permitted to read the book, ordering librarians to restrictcirculation to students in 10th through 12th grades. This is the third time injust over a year that the Fairfax board has bowed to a campaign by a handful ofparents who are proud of their anti-intellectualism and intent on deciding whatyour kids may read.Some of the books that Parents Against Bad Books in Schools (PABBIS) havedeclared "bad" are classics. Some are poorly written, sensational books designedto capitalize on the current passion for stories of victimization and identitypolitics. But literary quality has nothing to do with these parents' objections.They scour texts for bad words, violence and sex.The group's Web site is a lurid catalogue of sexually explicit and bloodypassages from books by Gabriel Garcia Marquez, Alice Walker, Umberto Eco andJames Michener (!) as well as far lesser writers.Around the nation, the book-banning campaign has eased up a bit, in part becauseschools have caved in, permitting parents to demand alternative readings if theydon't like what teachers assign. But in Fairfax, the censorship campaign is justgetting rolling. On the American Library Association's list of the 100 MostChallenged Books of the 1990s, "The Adventures of Huckleberry Finn" and "Of Miceand Men" make the top 10. Number 1 on the 2000 list: the Harry Potter books(violent, Satanic, anti-family).The Follett novel -- a 1989 bestseller about the construction of a cathedral inthe Middle Ages that is a recommendation in most school librarians' catalogues-- has naughty words, violence and descriptions of sexual behavior that neitherfeminists nor fundamentalists endorse.Board members were, for the most part, revolted. "I contemplated readingexcerpts from the book, but frankly, I couldn't," said board member Mychele B.Brickner (At Large). But she had heard enough to know the book must go. "Shouldthis school system follow popular culture as they sink into the pit of depravityin music, movies, particularly rap music?"Board member Rita Thompson (At Large) read the book but wishes she hadn't. "Itencourages acts of sexual abuse," she said. "It promotes raging acts ofviolence." I've missed the Ken Follett riots, but Thompson's jeremiad turned thetide against "Pillars."Nothing the book's supporters said mattered. Not even Hunter Mill board memberStuart D. Gibson's quotation of Benjamin Franklin, who said, "They that can giveup essential liberty to obtain a little temporary safety deserve neither libertynor safety."Board member Gary A. Reese (Sully) agreed that the bad guys in the book paid fortheir misdeeds with their lives, "and that's history. But, you know, so is thefact that the Emperor Tiberius loved little boys. That's history -- but . . .it's not age-appropriate."Cathy Belter, a librarian, was one of the few board members to consider theradical notion that other times had other values and that violent scenes in a1,000-page tome on medieval architecture do not necessarily mean Fairfaxteenagers will arrive at school bearing crossbows and catapults.Note that Follett's book is not assigned to any classes in Fairfax. It just sitsin some libraries, where it has been checked out all of five times in the pastyear. But that won't stop Kathy Stohr and Richard Ess, the parents leading thePABBIS campaign.Ess, a project manager for the Department of the Army who has five children inFairfax schools, found "Pillars" on a list of 24 books from which his15-year-old daughter at Thomas Jefferson High School had to pick one. "Half thebooks had things like oral sex and gang rape," Ess said. "We couldn't findanything for her."The girl chose the first chapters of the Bible, said her mother, Alice. "Sheknew the Bible anyway, so she didn't have to read it."Stohr wanted a total ban on "Pillars," but she'll settle for partial victory.And she'll be back: "Taking them one by one is the only way we can get them topay attention."Join me at noon today for "Potomac Confidential" at www.washingtonpost.com/liveonline.