Days after a 16-year-old girl said she was raped on an Ashburn jogging trail,residents say they feel as safe as ever in their leafy, family-orientedneighborhood -- although they have vowed to be more vigilant.The girl told authorities that she was walking on a paved trail along ClaiborneParkway near the Dulles Greenway about 8 p.m. April 28 when a man grabbed herfrom behind, pulled her into a wooded area and assaulted her. She reported theattack to the Loudoun County Sheriff's Office that night, officials said.On Friday, officials released a composite sketch of the man. He is described asa white male in his late teens or early 20s, about 6 feet tall, with brown eyes,short black hair and bad acne. He was wearing a long white T-shirt and blackpants at the time of the incident, officials said.Because the trail is heavily traveled and near a major road, the sheriff'soffice says it is likely someone saw the man."Claiborne Parkway at 8 o'clock at night is not deserted," spokesman KraigTroxell said. "Someone may have seen something."Deputies are combing through recent cases to see whether someone matching thatdescription was involved in another incident in that area. So far, nothing hasturned up, Troxell said.This is the first such incident in Loudoun County in recent memory, he said. Butsuch incidents have occurred in other parts of the region. In March, an18-year-old man believed to have been behind several incidents in Arlington andAlexandria was convicted in the sexual assault and beating of a woman on theFour Mile Run.Ashburn Farm residents say it's hard to imagine their popular trail as the sceneof such a violent crime. The well-maintained, unnamed path hugs ClaiborneParkway, a busy thoroughfare, and is only sporadically obscured from drivers'view. It runs between the roadway and a dense stretch of woods that backs up tosome homes."Obviously I'm very concerned for the girl and the family, and I'm concernedthey find who did this, but I'm not feeling like I need to change any of mypatterns," said Glenn Maravetz, vice president of the Ashburn Farm homeownersassociation.To some women, it reinforced the need to be careful. Shawn Nabors, 41, who livesfour blocks from the trail, said years ago she was followed by a man while shewas running on a trail in another community.She escaped unharmed, but the experience awakened in her an attention to safetythat has stuck. She tries to change her daily pattern, she said, running atdifferent times of the day so no one can predict her movements. And she triesnever to go jogging alone."After 20 years of changing patterns, it is a way of life," she said. "Maybe forthese young girls it's brand new to them."Violent-crime experts say people should follow some basic precautions while onwalking and jogging trails, such as going in groups and being aware ofsurroundings. When jogging alone, a person should either leave MP3 players athome or keep the volume low, said Easton McDonald, a deputy specialist with thesheriff's office."Sometimes you won't pick up on a person behind you," said McDonald, who hastaught self-defense techniques to women. "That could mean the difference betweenbecoming a victim and being able to run away."Anyone with information is encouraged to call the sheriff's office, at703-777-0475. To remain anonymous, contact Loudoun Crime Solvers at703-777-1919.Tammi Marcoullier of http://washingtonpost.com contributed to this report.