Judge Verbena Askew apparently lied, and that's not a good thing for any judgeto do. The judge also was on the bad end of a $ 64,000 settlement with anadministrator in her Virginia courthouse who accused Askew of propositioning her-- not the most decorous position for a public official, either.Today, with heavy hearts, genuine tears and barely concealed glee, Virginialegislators threw Askew off the bench, denying her reappointment as a CircuitCourt judge in Newport News. Verdict: Askew lied about the advances and then didher darnedest to cover it up. Sound familiar?This was the culminating act in the General Assembly's Let's Hear Juicy BitsAbout Lesbians Week, a seedy little enterprise in which the ever-bolderRepublican majority had itself a whale of a time grilling judges about theirsexual pleasures. Oh, they larded the proceedings with protestations of theirlack of interest in anyone's private affairs, but man, they just couldn't waitto get their hands on documents detailing the judge's alleged sexual stumbles.They subjected Askew to a seven-hour hearing last week that featured hardly aword about her performance as a judge, but endless questions about her, heh heh,proclivities.After today's concluding episode, I asked Kenneth W. Stolle (R-Virginia Beach),chairman of the Senate Courts of Justice Committee, whether there would havebeen any interest in debating Askew's reappointment had it not been for theaccusations from the courthouse employee."No," Stolle said. "This came to us because there was a sexual harassmentcomplaint and as part of an effort to cover that up, the judge did a number ofthings she shouldn't have done."Does this sound like a junior version of the Bill and Monica Show? It's notabout sex, it's about lying about sex, legislators kept saying, even as theypassed hour upon hour in packed hearing rooms, referring one another to the bestparts in the transcripts.Of course, Virginia legislators need not travel so far back in time forinspiration. They have the even fresher case of S. Vance Wilkins Jr., the Housespeaker who was forced into retirement last year after The Washington Postreported that he paid $ 100,000 to settle a sexual harassment claim made by awoman who worked at his old construction company.So lawmakers have harassment on the brain these days. But to black legislators,the Askew probe was nothing short of a "lynching," an "execution" by whites who,as Sen. Henry L. Marsh III (D-Richmond) put it, "held her to a standard that noother judge is held to, regarding questions of a purely personal nature."Well, not quite. Askew may have been ashamed to admit whatever she did with orto her accuser in the harassment case, but she indeed answered no on a barassociation questionnaire that asked whether she was the subject of any legal oradministrative proceeding. Judges, of all people, should tell it straight. Heck,they are a controlling legal authority.Marsh accused his colleagues of "an effort to get this judge." There he isright. Are legislators systematically vetting all of Virginia's judges? Or arethey leaping to investigate judges who veer from the straight and narrow sexualpath? The three judicial targets of interest this session were Askew; Court ofAppeals Judge Rosemarie Annunziata, who was grilled about her opinion in a caseinvolving a lesbian relationship; and state Supreme Court Justice BarbaraKeenan, who was asked about her dissent arguing against removing a child from amother's custody solely because the mother is a lesbian. (Legislators eventuallyapproved Annunziata's reappointment and reelected Keenan.)Richmond is still a place where lawmakers get good mileage out of jokes abouthomosexuality. And -- no joke -- Virginia is one of a dwindling number of stateswhere sodomy is still illegal. That fact last week led Del. Robert F. McDonnell(R-Virginia Beach), chairman of the House courts committee, to opine that anyonewho engages in oral or anal sex might not be qualified to be a judge inVirginia.An enterprising reporter from the Daily Press in Newport News asked McDonnellwhether he had ever violated the state's "crimes against nature" law. "Not thatI can recall," he replied.That's not a clear "No," is it? Hearings, anyone?Join me at noon today for "Potomac Confidential" at www.washingtonpost.com/liveonline.