Tuesday 16Man declines ride after crash, is fatally hit by 2 carsA Woodbridge man was killed early Monday on Prince William Parkway after his carran into a ditch and he declined a ride from the responding police officer.After his car was towed, Adam D. Mataseria, 25, attempted to cross the parkwayheading toward a convenience store and was struck by two vehicles. He died atthe scene.East Coast Rapist has led police on years-long huntThe man who raped two teenage girls in Dale City on Halloween is suspected in 16other known sexual assaults spanning four states and 13 years. Although policehave his DNA and matching descriptions, the East Coast Rapist has eludedcapture. "He is a very bold, fearless predator," said Sgt. Kim Chinn, a PrinceWilliam County police spokeswoman. "The concern is that he's out there, he's notgoing to stop until he's caught and the violence could get worse."Thursday 18 Haymarket man faces molestation chargeA 24-year-old Haymarket man who was a member of the U.S. national gymnasticsteam has been arrested for allegedly molesting a 13-year-old boy at a FairfaxCounty gymnastics center, Fairfax police said Wednesday. An investigation beganin January when a woman reported that a man had sex with her son in 2007 and2008, when the boy was 13 and the man was 22. Christopher A. Ford was chargedwith carnal knowledge of a minor.Friday 19 TB case confirmed at Freedom High SchoolSomeone at Freedom High School in Woodbridge has a confirmed case oftuberculosis, according to a letter from the Prince William County school'sprincipal and county health officials. Health officials will screen people whospent time with the patient for exposure, the letter said. All students will bescreened. Free screenings for students will be offered from 8:30 a.m. to 1:30p.m. Monday and Tuesday at the school.Killer of Manassas teenager dies in electric chairOn Thursday night, more than11 years after Paul Warner Powell killed Stacie Reed, 16, and left her sisterKristie for dead in the girls' Manassas home, he was executed in Virginia'selectric chair. Besides the savage attacks, the case was known for Powell'sboastful jailhouse letter to Prince William County's chief prosecutor, whichprovided the crucial evidence that resulted in Thursday's execution. Stacie'sfamily witnessed the execution, and Lorraine Reed Whoberry, Stacie and Kristie'smother, said she was glad she did because now she knows he is gone. "Justice wasserved, and this chapter has closed," she said.For these and other articles, visit www.washingtonpost.com/princewilliam.