You know Sarge from the Beetle Bailey comic strip? Beetle's hot-tempered "boss"peppers many of his conversations with @*#$, or sometimes the good old *#$& andthe ever-popular *$#*&$#@!Does that sound like your boss? Or perhaps even you?As workdays grow longer and workplaces grow more casual, so, it seems, growsworkplace cussing. Sure, it may have been around for a while, but many see it asmuch more prominent today. And with that comes some workplace problems.I'm sure most of us throw a few swear words around here and there. I won't tellyour mom -- or your kids. But those few words can cause much larger issues insome cases.First of all, you never know whom you are offending, even if you're simplycursing at your computer.One reader asked if cussing in the workplace is now the "corporate cool." Shewas mortified when her 16-year-old daughter came to work with her and heard thefoul language that the adults in the company used.James V. O'Connor, author of the book "Cuss Control: The Complete Book on How toCurb Your Cursing" (Three Rivers Press, $ 12.95), stated the "cursing in theworkplace" issue rather succinctly: "It just adds a little extra tension. Theythink they're venting, but it actually causes more stress."O'Connor first began his stop-the-swearing mission about six years ago. Hebecame tired of hearing all the swearing in public, and he realized all thewords that disturbed him were words he used himself. He found the bad-languagehabit a tough one to break and started doing some research. Then he wrote thebook and began speaking to groups about the subtle dangers of cursing.A few people have benefited from listening to O'Connor's (curse-free) talks.John R. Wagner, founder of the Chicago-based Wagner Group advertising agency,realized that his "loose" creative workplace was also one of constant swearing."There was more cussing going on here than at a law firm or a newspaper," hesaid. "Sometimes temperamental, creative people are outspoken. And sometimes itbecomes a task to deal with that environment."Wagner's company doesn't have any no-swearing rules, but it does try to controlthe bad-mouth bantering. "We're not a real conservative bunch by any means," hesaid. "But it just affects the environment, particularly with clients. You wantto make sure you're creating the right impression."The Wagner Group learned from O'Connor that there are good alternative words forthe four-letter ones. They also learned to think about speaking as if onnational television. The reason? There are certain words that can't be said onthe air. If everyone takes that as a standard, they learn self-control.So, what's the big deal?A lot of the swearing we do is "expressing negativity -- complaining,criticizing, grumbling," O'Connor said from his office near Chicago. "Notshowing a spirit of cooperation and a can-do attitude employers look for doesn'thelp your career."And ultimately, he said, swearing in the workplace can result in legal issues."Cases of sexual harassment and violence never talk about the swearing. Butviolence begins with them fightin' words," O'Connor said.In the case of Equal Employment Opportunity Commission v. Ball-Foster GlassContainer Co., a Wisconsin court said a company's failure to stop a femaleemployee from harassing other female workers constituted sexual harassment. Thewoman's use of sex-based epithets to other employees, her unwelcome andthreatening physical motions, and her sexually derogatory comments created ahostile work environment, the court held.The company tried to argue that the language was simply shoptalk, which it saidit does not monitor. But Sandra Radtke, the employment and labor lawyer on theaccuser's side, argued that the language was much more intimidating than simpleworkplace cursing.Radtke won the case, but the situation shows the ambiguity, and possible dangerfor a company, of deciding how much swearing is too much or what sort of cursingis considered to be harassment.A 55-year-old woman who works at an agency on Capitol Hill has a hard timedealing with the day-to-day life in her office because of her co-workers'language. She finds a direct correlation between the amount of bad language themen in her office use and their attitudes toward women. No, she said, no man inher office has ever sworn at her, but just the same, it's painful to be privy tothe bantering. The women in her office don't curse as much as the men do, andthat seems to separate the sexes even more."I really do cringe," she said. "Sometimes they can get pretty rank. I'm notonly embarrassed for myself, I'm embarrassed for them. If they only knew howthey look."Carl Jaskolski is a convert. A few years ago, he supervised five people. Theyknew they swore, and really, they knew it wasn't a good thing. So they set up aswear jar. Each curse word uttered would result in a quarter in the jar. Theysoon found their pockets empty, and they realized just how much time they spentusing curse words.But it wasn't until Jaskolski heard a preacher years later that it hit him:Those words were not necessary to get a point across. The preacher made hispoint without turning the air blue, so why couldn't others, Jaskolski wondered?Jaskolski now teaches a workplace-language course at Milwaukee Area TechnicalCollege, as well as human-resources and labor law at Concordia UniversityWisconsin. In his research, Jaskolski has tracked court cases that involvelanguage in the workplace. Employers are often found liable for not dealing witha person who was abusive with language. "The common denominator in any kind ofharassment is language," he said.Which may be why a language code he drafted in late 2000, much like a dresscode, is starting to catch on among U.S. companies.He has received more than 120 requests for the policy. Seventy percent of thosewho have requested it were women who work in industries including manufacturing,banking, social services and even a religious retreat, he said.His view may be a bit rosy. My guess is we're all going to continue to drop afew swear words here and there, but perhaps not so many. After all, saysO'Connor, workplace swearing wasn't always so prominent."Things go wrong at work. Everyone has problems. Computers don't work. You'restuck in traffic. It's not going to go away by swearing," O'Connor said. "Backin the old days when you couldn't swear anywhere, you just dealt with it."E-mail Amy Joyce at joycea@washpost.com. Join her for an hour-long Live Onlinechat every Tuesday at 11 a.m. at www.washingtonpost.com.