THE LAMPLIGHTER CAME AROUND AT DUSK. With his long flaming pole poked skyward,he sparked the bowls of oil atop the fluted posts around Lafayette Square. Inthe shadowy light, a Mr. Watson, walking home at around 11 o'clock on Tuesdayevening, August 4, 1835, encountered Arthur Bowen, an 18-year-old slave in thehouse of Mrs. Anna Maria Thornton, one of the capital's finest ladies. As Watsonwould later say, Arthur was "much intoxicated."The sight of Arthur Bowen drunk on whiskey was not uncommon around WashingtonCity during the long, hot summer of 1835. Anna Thornton had arranged to hire himout, but would later say he had been somewhat spoiled and refused to take ordersfrom any woman.As Anna would note in her diary, Arthur grew fond of drinking "ardent spirits"while befriending free Negroes in a debating society who talked with him aboutslavery, the Constitution and his rights as a human being.As Arthur loitered in Lafayette Square that night, reminders of his plight wereall around. Across the way, the president's house was dark because AndrewJackson was away. His slaves were sleeping in bedrooms on the second floor andin the attic. On another side of the square, the bland facade of one of therowhouses masked a slave pen -- a place where slave traders gathered their humancargo to be shipped south from the docks of Georgetown.Arthur's problem was less his present circumstances, which were about ascomfortable as any enslaved young African in America could hope for. His problemwas his dismal and uncertain future. In the debating society, organized by theRev. John F. Cook, an energetic free Negro who ran a church and school at 14thand H streets, Arthur had learned that whatever liberty he had could vanish at awhite man's whim.Arthur went home. Inside the Thornton house, on F Street between 13th and 14th,he stumbled across an ax left on the basement stairwell. At least, that is whatAnna would write in a letter months later. She concluded that Arthur had pickedit up thinking to put it in its place. In the first-floor hallway, he lifted thelatch to the bedroom, where his mother, Anna and her aged mother slept, andentered.Arthur would later say that he did not remember what happened that night. Annawould never forget it.According to Anna's account, Arthur stood in the doorway, thoroughly inebriated,with the ax in the crook of his arm. Anna, who was sleeping in the bed to hisleft, woke up with a start. Surprised and terrified by Arthur's extraordinaryentrance, she got up wordlessly. She passed around the small table in the centerof the room, not more than a step away from the young man and the ax. He justkept staring straight ahead. She hastened out the door at the far end of theroom to the front parlor and fled to get help.In the bed on the far side of the room was his mother, Maria Bowen, the longtimeslave and personal servant of Anna. Maria awoke. She rushed at Arthur in herbedclothes."Get out, get out," she shouted, according to a witness quoted in a newspaper.Maria snatched the ax from her son and shoved him down the passage to the backof the house, pushed him out and locked the door behind him. Anna came runningback into the house with two neighbors -- Henry Huntt, the president'sphysician, and Walter Gibson, an attorney who lived in Huntt's house."I've got him out," Maria gasped. "He's crazy."Outside the house, Arthur was furious about being locked out -- and about beinga slave. He picked up a scrub brush and banged on the door."I've got just as much right to freedom as you," he shouted, according to thefour fearful people listening on the other side of the door.After more shouting, Arthur backed away. He stumbled back through the gardeninto the alley and disappeared into the night.The nation's capital was about to explode.ARTHUR BOWEN'S MIDNIGHT RAMBLE was followed by Washington's first race riot, anoutbreak of violence that has largely been forgotten. Above all, the malign roleof Francis Scott Key in the capital's first convulsion of racial violence hasnot been properly recognized. This American icon stood at the intersection ofthe racial, political and social forces that stoked Washington's unrest. Backthen, the city was an embryo of the metropolis it would become. But it wasgrowing rapidly. Once a muddy village, Washington had emerged in the 1830s as athriving city of 20,000 people. "Recklessness and extravagance" were fastbecoming the norm of city life, veteran editor Ben Perley later wrote. "Laxityof morals and the coolest disregard possible characterized that period of ourexistence."In 1835, Key was a leading citizen of the capital city. He was not only theauthor of the lyrics to "The Star-Spangled Banner," the popular tune that wasalready considered the nation's anthem (although it was not officially adopteduntil 1931). He was also a prosperous lawyer, a vestryman at St. John'sEpiscopal Church and the father of 10 children. Two years earlier, PresidentJackson had named him the city's district attorney. Key was an able and honestman -- yet also a menace. In the capital city's moment of crisis and highemotion, the man who defined America as "the land of the free and the home ofthe brave" proved to be a determined foe of freedom of speech and a smugadvocate of white supremacy.The American amnesia is perhaps understandable. It is unsettling to rememberthat, in the cold winter of 1836, Francis Scott Key sought the death penalty foran 18-year-old, apparently as a civics lesson to the people of Washington andthe nation. It is harder, but perhaps healthier, to recall what has been losthistory. Key, a founding father of the American spirit, was quietly thwarted bya better sort of woman, a Washington socialite with unsuspected politicalskills, driven by love and family secrets, a woman named Anna Maria Thornton.ARTHUR FLED ON TUESDAY NIGHT. On Saturday morning, August 8, the WashingtonMirror newspaper reported that he had been arrested.In a city already on edge with racial tension, the first reports of a Negroslave entering the boudoir of a white woman with an ax in hand evokedstill-fresh memories of Nat Turner's 1831 rebellion in Southampton County, Va.,180 miles south of Washington. Turner and a band of runaway slaves had killedupwards of 50 white people with axes before being rounded up and hanged by localauthorities. The Washington Globe newspaper declared that Anna was "a kind andindulgent mistress" who had "just been saved from butchery in her own chamber."The changing racial composition of the city fed those fears. During the 1830s,free blacks would outnumber slaves in Washington for the first time.Entrepreneurs of color were running restaurants, driving horse-drawn taxis andworking as government messengers. To make matters even more tense, the capitalwas awash that week with rumors of abolitionist peril. Petitioners from up northwere demanding that Congress abolish the slave trade in the federal district. Inan early version of a political direct-mail campaign, abolitionists begansending their publications -- bursting with illustrated stories of slavery'scruelties -- to the president, to congressmen, to professors and to otherleading citizens. The open circulation of such stories struck many white people(and more than a few Negroes) as a challenge to the law and order of thecommunity, an incitement to slaves to slaughter their masters.The prominence of the victim made the story all the more sensational. At 60years of age, Anna was among the best- known ladies in Washington. Her mother,Ann Brodeau, had been an accomplished schoolteacher who had moved from Englandto Philadelphia when Anna was a baby. A renowned beauty in her youth, Anna hadbeen married at age 15 to William Thornton, a brilliant architect who was onfriendly terms with George Washington, Thomas Jefferson and other leaders of thenew nation. After William Thornton won the 1792 contest to design the Capitol,he and his wife moved to Washington, where they became fixtures of the town'selite.In 1804, Anna sat for her friend Gilbert Stuart, the painter who made his nameportraying George Washington. Stuart's portrait of her reveals a handsome, proudwoman with a strong nose and bright eyes, outward indicators of quickperception, womanly graces and determination. She and her husband had nochildren, so she devoted herself to the household economy, throwing dinnerparties, hosting out-of-town visitors and managing the family farm in Bethesda."In affairs of business, she was equal to a man," a friend later recalled.Now Anna was distraught at Arthur's arrest, and no doubt regretful of her rolein bringing it about. "Oh I am grieved indeed at this business," Anna wrote inher diary that Saturday night. "The people are incensed against Arthur as he isthought to be one of a party instigated by some white friends to raise aninsurrection . . . Oh God protect us -- still as thou has done & give mefortitude & resolution."Before her prayer could be answered, a crowd of angry young white men gatheredaround the city jail in Judiciary Square that weekend. They were mostly Irish,mostly drunk. Known as "Mechanics," these manual laborers were poor andinsecure. The institution of slavery, with its low-cost labor for well-to-dowhites, constantly undercut the value of their work. But they did not directtheir rage at the slave masters. They turned on the Negroes and theabolitionists, seeing them as dire threats to be repelled.Watching the tumult in Judiciary Square was a free Negro named Michael Shiner,who worked for the Navy and kept a diary. The Mechanics, he wrote, "swore theywould pull the jail down and they continued making their threats and they saidtheir object was to get Mrs. Thornton's mulatto and hang him without judge orjuror."District Attorney Key struggled to restore order. At 56, he was, in Ben Perley'swords, "a small active man, having an earnest and even anxious countenance, asif care sat heavily upon him." Accustomed to leading his family in prayer twicea day, Key was not prepared for a defiant mob shouting obscenities. And all hehad to protect himself and city property was the city's police force, whichconsisted of exactly 10 constables. So, according to newspaper accounts, Keyasked for military help. A detachment of Marines was sent from the Navy Yard. Bynightfall, scores of Marines, carrying bayoneted guns, marched down PennsylvaniaAvenue toward Judiciary Square, where the clamoring Mechanics were temporarilycowed but not calmed.Key apparently thought he had to do more. He shared the Globe's view that ArthurBowen's alleged attack was the "first fruit" of the circulation of abolitionistliterature. This is not the modern-day view of Key. On a historical marker inFrancis Scott Key Park in Georgetown, he is described as "active in anti-slaverycauses." That is technically accurate but hardly the whole story. Key was anactive leader of the American Colonization Society, a group popular amongright-thinking members of the capital elite, which, while repudiating slavery inprinciple, also sought to encourage Negroes to move to Africa. The city'slegally sanctioned slave trade did not stir Key to action. He was far moreoffended by the outside agitators from the North who sought to abolish it.On August 10, Key persuaded a justice of the peace to write a warrant for thearrest of one Reuben Crandall, a white man who was said to be in possession ofabolitionist literature. Crandall was a 29-year-old botanist and doctor from NewYork who had recently opened an office on High Street (now Wisconsin Avenue) inGeorgetown. Crandall was a plausible suspect because of his notorious sister,Prudence Crandall. She was a Connecticut schoolteacher who had stirredcontroversy nationwide the year before by welcoming a free Negro girl into herclassroom. (The Connecticut legislature promptly passed a law forbiddingintegrated schools.) According to newspaper accounts, Reuben Crandall cut astodgier figure than his outspoken sister. He opposed slavery but not openly. Asa teetotaler, he cared more about the prohibition of liquor than the abolitionof slavery.When two constables went to Crandall's office, he allowed them to search thepremises. As they later testified in court, the constables found a box full ofcopies of the Anti-Slavery Reporter and the Liberator, the two publications thathad been mass-mailed to the city's leading citizens. Crandall was arrested oncharges of sedition. As the constables emerged on the street with theirprisoner, one bystander later testified that someone in the crowd had said, "Weought to take the damned rascal and hang him up on one of the trees."The constables rushed Crandall to the jail in Judiciary Square for his ownsafety. But, with two prisoners they loathed in custody, the Mechanics grew moreagitated and refused to disperse."THE PUBLIC INDIGNATION IS RISING HIGH and the general impression is that theculprit will not go unpunished," one visitor wrote of Crandall's arrest. Thedozens of Marines garrisoned around City Hall and the jail, however, meant themob could not lynch either Bowen or Crandall. So, soon the Mechanics turnedtheir fury on a new target: Beverly Snow, a free man of mixed race who ran apopular restaurant at the corner of Sixth Street and Pennsylvania Avenue, theEpicurean Eating House. A rumor spread that Snow had, in the words of theWashington Mirror, "used very indecent and disrespectful language concerning thewives and daughters of Mechanics."Snow, as his name might imply, was a cool customer who seemed to blend in withwhites. His finely appointed restaurant sat amid several busy hotels onPennsylvania Avenue. By day, Snow served Washington's better white families.At night, he offered parlors for "gentlemen forming private parties." Thenewspaper advertisement that he ran that week declared that his menu included "afine green turtle . . . a very fine Sheep's Head and every other luxury of theseason." As the mob descended on his restaurant on August 11, Snow, in the wordsof one account, "escaped unharmed, through management of white friends."When Snow couldn't be found, the fracas fizzled out. But the next day the mobreturned to Snow's establishment. The rioters, the Globe reported, cut down therestaurant's sign "and broke and destroyed most if not all of the furniture inthe house, not forgetting to crack a bottle of the 'old Hock' [whiskey] 'now andthen.'"Up the street at City Hall, two branches of the city government, the board ofaldermen and the common council, met and approved a proclamation authorizingMayor William Bradley to "adopt such measures as may appear to him bestcalculated to allay the excitement now existing amongst a portion of thepopulation of this City." Bradley, in turn, deputized retired Maj. Gen. WalterJones, a veteran of the War of 1812, to organize a citizen's militia to restoreorder."Some fifty or sixty persons appeared at the City Hall about sundown, armed withmuskets and fixed bayonets" to volunteer for the militia and guard City Hall,reported the Globe. About 300 or 400 Mechanics remained in and around Snow'srestaurant, just a stone's throw away. Both parties maintained their positionsuntil some time in the night. Then the Mechanics left the restaurant and headedtoward the Rev. Cook's church and school at the corner of 14th and H.The mob wanted Cook, a solemn free black man who was well-versed in Presbyteriantheology and sought to educate every Negro child he could find. Cook was a firmopponent of drink and slavery. Perhaps worried that the mob would associate himwith Arthur Bowen's outrage, he retrieved his horse from a friend's stable andfled to Pennsylvania.According to one account, the Mechanics "destroyed all the books and furnitureand partially destroyed the building." As night fell, roving bands of white menhunted for free blacks and abolitionists to molest."Some disorders took place at three or four points, in the demolition of somesmall wooden tenements occupied by free negroes, as dwellings or as schools, andthe breaking of the windows of one of their houses of worship," said theNational Intelligencer newspaper. In addition, "a house of ill fame" on CapitolHill was torched around midnight. The flames could be seen from JudiciarySquare. The militia marched toward the blaze, led by Mayor Bradley, "but beforethey reached the spot, the fire had burnt down, and the rioters had dispersed."At home on F Street, Anna Thornton lay awake listening to the noise of a city inchaos. When she finally dozed, she had a nightmare, according to her diary.The next day, August 13, Washington was quiet, not the least because ofwidespread shock."We could not have believed it possible that we should live to see the PublicOffices garrisoned by the clerks with United States troops posted at theirdoors, and their window barricaded, to defend them against the citizens ofWashington," declared the National Intelligencer on August 15.Two days later, President Jackson returned from a tour of the South. The tall,stern former general, clad in black coat and white shirt, with a wavy halo offlowing gray locks, offered the rattled people of the city authority thatneither Bradley nor Key could provide. According to the newspapers, Jackson wasgreeted with relief and the fanfare of a marching band. He immediately sent wordto the Mechanics, saying that he hoped to address their grievances.Beverly Snow, meanwhile, had gone to his hometown of Fredericksburg and turnedhimself in to the sheriff for his own protection. From his jail cell, he wrote aletter to the politically influential Globe. He denied he had spoken salaciouslyof the Mechanics' women and cited his reputation in Washington."Sirs, do me the honor to look back at my past conduct, as a citizen, for thelast six or seven years," he wrote. "If anything can be produced against me, letthe world know it."When city authorities vouched that Snow was not wanted for any crime, hereturned to Washington. He dissolved his interest in the Epicurean Eating Houseand left town for a country where a man might live freely: Canada. His troubleshad become such a symbol of the unrest that the events of August 1835 would beremembered as "the Snow Riot."In his City Hall office, the district attorney could not rest. Key yearned tovindicate the rule of law and common sense in the nation's capital. For the goodof the city, both Arthur Bowen and Reuben Crandall had to be brought to justice.ARTHUR'S TRIAL, on charges of attempted murder and burglary, began first, inlate November. Anna testified that he had been a docile boy, perhaps spoiled,who had succumbed to drink as he got older. She said that she did not believe hehad intended to kill her. Her neighbor, Henry Huntt, told a different story.Roused in the night by Anna, Huntt said that Anna had said that Arthur had comeinto the room "with upraised ax." Huntt described Arthur shouting abolitionistslogans while slamming his ax into the door and calling for blood.When his turn came, Key persuaded the judges to bar the argument that Arthur'sinebriation was a mitigating factor. In cross-examination, Key induced Huntt torepeat the details of the assault. On December 10, Arthur appeared in court tohear the verdict. The jury deliberated for 15 minutes and returned a guiltyverdict, which meant that Arthur was to be "hanged by the neck until he bedead."Anna Thornton fell into a deep melancholy over the prospect of Arthur'sexecution. She pitied her servant Maria Bowen, who was going to lose her onlychild. And she feared for the health of her own 88-year-old mother, who adoredArthur.As Anna probably knew, her mother already had experienced the hanging of a lovedone. Ann Brodeau, it turns out, harbored a secret. She was not, as shepretended, a French-born schoolteacher. In fact, she was the widow of aprominent clergyman from suburban London whose last name was Todd -- Anna'sfather. He was famous for his generosity toward the poor, and himself. Tosupport this philanthropy, he forged a bond for 4,000 pounds. He was caught,convicted and hanged in 1777.It is also possible that Ann Brodeau and Anna Thornton recognized in Arthur'sfeatures and headstrong ways some of the traits of the late William Thornton.Arthur was mulatto. Nothing is known of his white father, but Maria Bowen hadbeen serving as a young woman in the Thornton household in 1816, the year beforeArthur was born. There is no evidence that William Thornton had impregnatedMaria Bowen via seduction or rape. But if he had, the young man about to go tothe city gallows was Ann Brodeau's step-grandson. And, in a ghastly twist offamily fate, he was about to die the same way Anna's father had. Anna wrote inher diary that she could not summon the nerve to tell her mother Arthur had beencondemned.Arthur's execution was scheduled for February 26, 1836. Two weeks before thatdreaded day, Anna finally acted. She drew up a petition asking for apresidential pardon and obtained the signatures of 34 friends. She wrote a noteto Vice President Martin Van Buren, a social acquaintance, asking him tointervene on Arthur's behalf with President Jackson. Anna may have thought thatJackson, as a slave owner and staunch defender of white supremacy, was notlikely to look with favor on her wishes. But she also might have intuited thatthe president had qualities that offered some hope. Jackson was just a few yearsolder than she. Like her, he had lost a beloved spouse. Jackson always thoughthis wife's death in 1832 had been hastened by the abusive language hurled herway by political foes. "This made him the sworn and unyielding foe of allslanderers of women," wrote Ben Perley.Anna composed a 17-page letter to Jackson. In elegant and unfalteringhandwriting, she described what she had seen that fateful night. She explainedthat Arthur was drunk and had never raised the ax. She tactfully suggested mobpassions had driven Key's prosecution."The recent alarms & agitations . . . may have had an unconscious influence indetermining the expediency of seizing the first occasion to make a severe andterrifying example," she wrote in the letter, now in the National Archives inCollege Park.She pleaded for Jackson to spare Arthur's life. "The bloody execution" of thecourt's sentence, she told the president, "would be more horrible than theoffense."In the city jail, Arthur resigned himself to his fate. He wrote a poem, laterpublished in the Globe, to his pals, whom he would not see again.Farewell, farewell, my young friends dear; / Oh! View my dreadful state, / Eachflying moment brings me near / Unto my awful fate.He blamed liquor, not slavery, for his impending doom.Brought up I was by parents nice, / Whose commands I would not obey, / Butplunged ahead foremost into vice, / And into temptation's dreadful way.And he concluded with this sad rhyme.Good bye, good bye, my friends so dear, / May God Almighty please you all, / Do,if you please, but shed a tear / At Arthur Bowen's unhappy fall.In his second-floor office in the executive mansion, Jackson read Anna's finalappeal, her signed petition and the legal opinion of his attorney general.On the night of February 25, a heavy snowfall enveloped the city. The next day,Arthur Bowen woke up expecting to go to his death. Instead, the prison marshalinformed him that the president had granted a respite. His execution had beenpostponed until June. Anna, the putative victim of his crime, had spared hislife.If Key was bothered by Jackson's act of mercy, he did not record his views inany way that has survived. Key had other business to attend to. He wasprosecuting the miscreants who had led the Mechanics on their spree. And he waspreparing for what he saw as his most important case, U.S. v. Reuben Crandall.In Key's prosecution of Crandall, it became clear that the district attorneybelieved Crandall was the real culprit in the Snow Riot story. Arthur was a mereslave. But Crandall's efforts to stoke the slaves' desire for freedom inAmerica, Key declared as the trial began in April 1836, was nothing less than a"base and demonical" effort to incite slaves, free Negroes and others to "stirup against slave owners." Crandall, in Key's view, was guilty of sedition andshould pay a heavy price.U.S. v. Reuben Crandall was the most sensational trial in Washington in years.The newspaper coverage was extensive. The courtroom in City Hall was crowded.Several congressmen took front-row seats. Crandall was defended by two ofWashington's most skillful attorneys, Richard Coxe and Joseph Bradley. Thesecrafty barristers blocked Key at every turn. After the district attorney calleda witness who said he had borrowed a copy of the Anti-Slavery Reporter fromCrandall, Coxe produced half a dozen witnesses who swore Crandall had nointerest in the anti-slavery cause. Bradley handled the courtroom theatrics. Heread aloud a statement on the evils of slavery. When the court demanded to knowits relevance, Bradley revealed that the words had come from the mouth of Keyhimself years earlier.In final arguments, Key declared that U.S. v. Reuben Crandall was "one of themost important cases ever tried" in the nation's capital. The issue, he said,according to the trial transcript, was "whether our institutions have any meansof legal defense against a set of men of most horrid principles, whose means ofattack upon us are insurrection, tumult and violence."Key appealed to the all-white jury's sense of supremacy."Are you willing, gentlemen, to abandon your country; to permit it to be takenfrom you, and occupied by the Abolitionist, according to whose taste it is toassociate and amalgamate with the Negro?" he said. "Or, gentlemen, on the otherhand, are there laws in this community to defend you from the immediateAbolitionist, who would open upon you the floodgates of such extensivewickedness and mischief?"Bradley replied that Key's case was based on a tissue of supposition and thatpunishing Reuben Crandall for sedition would set a dangerous precedent thatwould endanger every American's constitutional rights.The jury deliberated for three hours and delivered a stinging rebuke to Key: Thedefendant was not guilty.William Lloyd Garrison, the crusading editor of the anti-slavery newspaper theLiberator, hailed Crandall's acquittal and scorned the prosecutor. Key, hewrote, "seems to have cherished deep malignity of purpose" toward this"excellent but suffering man."The sad truth was that Reuben Crandall, even though acquitted, already had beencondemned to die, if only inadvertently. During his incarceration in the squalidcity jail, he had contracted tuberculosis. After his release, he set sail forKingston, Jamaica, to recuperate. It was no use. As he grew sicker, he welcomedGod's grace. He never mentioned Key in final fond letters to his family. Hewould die in January 1838.BY THE SUMMER OF 1836, some normality had returned to the community of freeblacks of Washington. The Rev. Cook had come back from self-imposed exile torebuild his church and school. Absalom Shadd, a free black man from Canada,would soon take over Snow's restaurant. The city imposed some new restrictionson free Negroes, but life would go on. (And on and on. Today, the church foundedby Cook, 15th Street Presbyterian, is still going strong. The corner whereBeverly Snow served dinner is occupied by a pricey steakhouse that caters, as hedid, to the political class.)In June 1836, President Jackson dealt another blow to Key's vision of justice inthe nation's capital. He ordered another respite for Arthur Bowen, this onelasting until August. Perhaps sensing advantage, Anna Thornton pressed on. Sheasked one of the judges in Arthur's trial, Buckner Thruston, to intercede withthe president. It was a savvy choice because Thruston was a former senator fromKentucky and a political ally of Jackson's. Thruston wrote a letter to Jacksontelling him that Arthur was inebriated and "temporarily insane" on the night ofthe alleged assault. Thruston said he supported Anna Thornton's petition for apardon.And then tragedy struck Francis Scott Key.His son Daniel had just returned from a tour of duty with the Navy in theMediterranean. Like Arthur Bowen, Daniel Key was 19 years old and a world oftrouble to his elders. On the voyage home, he had quarreled with a fellow sailornamed Sherburne and challenged him to a duel. Back in Washington, Daniel Keyencountered Sherburne and challenged him again. In late June, they met at adueling ground in Bladensburg, and Sherburne shot young Key dead.When the body of Daniel Key was brought back to the Key house on C Street, thefather faced a severe test of his religious faith. People who were therereported a scene of utter emotional desolation."This melancholy affair has caused a very deep sensation in our community,"reported the Metropolitan newspaper. Sympathy for the Key family was said to be"strong and universal."Maybe it was coincidence, or maybe it was pity. Perhaps he just wanted to bedone with it. But three days after the duel, Andrew Jackson finally relented. Hetook up his pen and scrawled an order: "Let the Negro boy John Arthur Bowen bepardoned." Thinking his gesture should have patriotic impact, the presidentadded that the pardon should "take effect on the 4th of July."What Francis Scott Key thought of Anna Thornton's improbable victory is notknown, but he seems not to have been proud of his actions in 1835 and 1836. Inan admiring 1911 biography, a descendant of Key's made no mention of the pardonof Arthur Bowen or of the acquittal of Reuben Crandall.Perhaps even Key came to recognize, before his death in 1843, that he had erred.Certainly, his twin defeats in 1836 constituted a modest victory for Americanjustice.Anna attended to the necessary final details to secure Arthur's safety. Inreturn for the pardon, she agreed to sell Arthur to a friend of the presidentwho promised to get Arthur training to become a servant on a steamship. Apractical woman, Anna wanted to be paid $800 for Arthur. She reluctantly settledfor $750.On July 4, 1836, the day Arthur's release took effect, Ann Brodeau, Anna'slong-suffering mother, finally expired. She died unaware that Arthur, thebeloved boy whom she had watched grow to manhood, was going to live.In the face of such cascading emotions, Anna wrote of her hopes for Arthur:"I never intended to sell him for life, but could not now avoid & hope & praythat he may lead a new life and be happy."A few days later, Arthur Bowen left Washington and embarked on his future in theland of the free and the home of the brave.Jefferson Morley is a Washingtonpost.com staff writer. He will be fieldingquestions and comments about this article Monday at 1 p.m. atwashingtonpost.com/liveonline.