Reprinted from Thursday's editionsIf I were Virginia Gov. Bob McDonnell, I would feel more than a little resentfulat getting a mere 10 minutes of cable-only television exposure at the Republicanconvention in Tampa. I mean, McDonnell can boast of a stronger record ofconservative accomplishments than the evening's big star, New Jersey Gov. ChrisChristie, the keynote speaker.McDonnell was workmanlike in the second-biggest speech of his career, after his2010 response to President Obama's State of the Union address. On Tuesday, hemade a solid, albeit predictable, case against the Democrats for supposedlydisrespecting entrepreneurs and killing jobs.But it's safe to say the effort was viewed only by Republican activists andother political aficionados. The main broadcast networks didn't carryMcDonnell's address, which aired on cable networks at 8:45 p.m. ABC, NBC and CBSbegan covering the convention more than an hour later.McDonnell is too much of a party loyalist to say so, but I can: His achievementsin Virginia, and his service as chairman of the Republican GovernorsAssociation, merited a more prominent slot.Christie, whose widely broadcast address http://www.washingtonpost.com/politics/ann-romney-gov-christie-to-address-gop-convention-tuesday-night/2012/08/28/de21d634-f0fd-11e1-a612-3cfc842a6d89_story.htmlreceived mixed reviews,presides over a state with the nation's fourth-highest unemployment rate.Virginia's is 10th lowest.Christie also let down his party in November's state legislative elections, inwhich Democrats retained control of both chambers. In the same month, theMcDonnell-led Virginia GOP effectively took back the state Senate, thus gainingfull control of the General Assembly.As for Wisconsin's Rep. Paul Ryan, who beat out McDonnell and others for thevice presidential nomination, he has zero executive experience. He has spentalmost his entire career as a pointy-headed policy wonk and Washington insider,precisely the background that the GOP faithful despise.McDonnell has been state attorney general as well as governor (and he was alegislator before that). He also served his country as an Army officer. NeitherChristie nor Ryan is a veteran.For a term-limited governor such as McDonnell, who needs to maximize his futurecareer possibilities, a convention speech could, and probably should, have beenan ideal way to attract attention. If only it had come when the networks werepaying attention.And chairing the platform committee was meager consolation. The main thinganybody remembers about the GOP platform is that presidential nominee MittRomney pointedly disagrees with some of its most conservative positions (notablyits opposition to abortion without exceptions for rape and incest).McDonnell's part in the supporting cast reflects three hard truths that willhelp shape his future as he looks for a job at the national level after (orbefore?) his governorship ends in early 2014.McDonnell is not as combative and colorful a performer as Christie. TheVirginian is energetic, articulate and earnest, but he doesn't connect withaudiences emotionally the way Christie does.Although he's conservative on budget matters, McDonnell is not as radical aboutshrinking the government as Ryan. The congressman's outspoken advocacy on thatissue vaulted him to the junior spot on the national ticket to calm fears in theGOP base that Romney is too moderate.Finally, McDonnell can't fully shed his troublesome record on women's issues. Ineach of the past two years, he signed legislation that had the effect ofrestricting access to abortion. The most recent measure, which ignited fieryprotest among women's groups (not to mention ridicule from late-nightcomedians), requires women to undergo an ultrasound before terminating apregnancy.Such measures give Democrats and other critics a ready-made opportunity toremind voters of the controversial master's thesis that McDonnell wrote in 1989at Christian evangelical Regent University. Among other things, he said workingmothers hurt families.That background hurt McDonnell's prospects for the vice presidency, given theGOP's need to reach out to women. It would surely arise in the future should herun for the presidency or be considered again as a running mate.On the other hand, McDonnell's temperate, good-soldier style would be a plus ina lot of top-level jobs. If Romney wins, McDonnell would be a strong candidatefor a Cabinet post, possibly attorney general or at least secretary of veteransaffairs. If Obama is reelected, then there's talk of McDonnell as chairman ofthe Republican National Committee.Given his record in Virginia and his progress up the Republican hierarchy, wecould see a lot more of Bob McDonnell at future GOP conventions.mccartneyr@washpost.comI discuss local issues at 8:51 a.m. Friday on WAMU (88.5 FM). For previouscolumns, go to washingtonpost.com/mccartney.