The corpse measured 66 inches from blue toes to jutting ears. In a beige houseon Tenley Circle, a dentist-entrepreneur lugged this cargo down the stairs intothe basement and laid it to rest by the washer.The body in plaid pajamas was that of a 57-year-old retarded ward of theDistrict of Columbia. On the streets outside the city-funded group home where hehad lived and died, kids sometimes called him Retard-O. Inside, he sweetened thehours by printing the name his mother gave him before she gave him up. FrederickEmory Brandenburg. He blanketed old telephone directories with that name,covered the TV Guides the home's staffers tossed aside. He glutted the flyleavesof his large-print Living Bible. The immensity of the effort made his handsshake, but the habit seemed as requisite as breath. In this way Brandenburg,whose thick-tongued words were mysteries to many, impressed the fact of hisexistence on his world.In January 1997, that existence was obliterated by his caretakers.In one of 14 group homes for which the city pays dentist Arthur Stubbs and hispartner, Sheila Gaither, $ 6 million a year, Brandenburg was tranquilized in astaff mix-up, grew acutely ill and, surrounded by caretakers, slowly diedwithout treatment. His body was washed, moved by Stubbs into the basement, andcremated without autopsy. The White Pages emblazoned with his name weredispatched to a trash can out back. His caretakers altered the time andcircumstances of his death in records they submitted to the city, housedocuments show. Government officials who were supposed to ensure his safety keptevidence of wrongdoing from the police. And this summer, after The WashingtonPost asked questions, Brandenburg's city case manager shredded records on hisdeath. Today, in the name of the privacy and dignity of the retarded, top cityofficials say they can't publicly acknowledge that a man named Fred Brandenburgwas ever in their care.This erasure of a life was not an exceptional event in what was supposed to beAmerica's most compassionate and costly effort to deinstitutionalize thementally retarded.As the 1990s began, a historic reform moved the District's mentally disabledwards from a large, exurban asylum called Forest Haven into a web of small,privately run group homes and therapeutic programs in the heart of thecity--programs funded by more than 1 billion public dollars. But in thoseintimate settings, a Post investigation has found, corporate misrepresentationand city complicity have concealed the facts of dozens of troubling deaths.In 86 cases from 1993 through September 1999 in which The Post could ascertain acause of death, it found documentary evidence in 34--more than one-third--ofdelayed treatment, neglect, falsifications in reports or other lapses.Among the dead were:* Profoundly retarded, elderly Calvin Nielson, fatally scalded in a home ownedby a prominent developer. An aide left him alone in an overheating shower aboutwhich city inspectors had repeatedly complained.* Herbert Scott, 43, whose decaying corpse was discovered by his caretakers onlywhen the odor snaked under his door into a hallway.* Antonio Silva, 16, who choked and died when counselors at his day program--thesame program where 12 months earlier a boy died unattended in ahallway--couldn't locate paperwork they said they needed in order to suction hispneumonia-ridden lungs.* Reginald Lovette, 28, who was strangled by his 250-pound roommate. For a year,his repeated pleas for protection had been disregarded by the convictedcriminals who served as his group home counselors.For these four cases, the city's Department of Human Services--the municipalcustodian of D.C.'s retarded wards--produced, in seven months, exactly onerecord: a note from the organization that cared for Herbert Scott saying thathis body had been found.Although DHS officials told The Post earlier this year that many of the deathshad been investigated, a study of records shows that in the face of ampleevidence of neglect, DHS hasn't investigated a single death of a retarded personsince at least 1993. Only 14 received an autopsy--and six of those autopsieswere left unfinished. Government officials routinely closed death cases on thebasis of phoned-in or brief written accounts by group home and day-programofficials--accounts that, The Post found, were frequently false.Today, city records on many of those deaths have vanished. In April, using theFreedom of Information Act, The Post requested the records of all retardedpersons who died in the city's care since 1993. In June 1999, DHS releasedheavily edited records documenting a total of 11 deaths. Pressed, DHS officialscombed files and surveyed group home operators and by October had documented 69dead. DHS Director Jearline F. Williams said last month that she could notexplain why there were no records on 47 other deaths found by The Post.Two days ago, DHS officials turned over death certificates that they saidrepresented 114 deaths, at least 45 more than they had previously disclosed.Most of the details on the certificates had been whited out--giving noindication of who had died, where, how or under whose care.Among public health researchers, fatalities of wards of the state are sometimestagged "sentinel events": Like lifeless canaries in the pit of the mine shaft,they warn of perils that may await the living. But the D.C. government has foryears resisted inquiry--by the press, by a federally funded advocacy group andeven by the U.S. Department of Justice--into deaths within its taxpayer-fundednetwork of care."We have a sacred trust to ensure the well-being of our most vulnerableclients," Mayor Anthony A. Williams said in July, after blind, retarded PatrickDutch died of heat exhaustion when his caretakers forgot him for seven hours ina locked and stifling van. But the city's own records reveal a system that,buffered from public scrutiny, failed that trust.The Post investigation used District medical examiners' records, DHS andDepartment of Public Health documents, funeral home and cemetery databases,Social Security death records and more than 200 interviews with retarded peopleand their caretakers, families and doctors to develop an accounting of who diedand how.In interviews, top officials of DHS, D.C. police, the health department and themedical examiner's office did not attempt to defend their agencies' handling ofdeaths among the retarded. "The system is broken," said Jearline Williams inresponse to The Post's findings. "The families of the dead have my sympathy,they have the District government's sympathy."Williams and other agency heads said that, with the help of the District'sinspector general and the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services, theywere working frantically to initiate structural changes and investigate abusivecontractors and negligent city employees. "We can't sit back and cover upthings," said Williams. "It took a long time to get to this state, and it isgoing to take time to fix. But I promise that there will be radical changes,starting now, to ensure that those still in the group homes are safe. This willnever happen again."Some of the city's unrecorded dead lie in a Northeast cemetery: numbered discs,silted over, in rows by a chain-link fence. Others rest elsewhere, in unmarkedgroup graves or plastic cartons. A tour of these shadowlands might begin withFred Brandenburg. Although his body was cremated before burial, interviews andextant city records allow an account of his death to be exhumed.At Forest Haven, where Brandenburg grew up, a child-size wheelchair is draped inreindeer moss. A stand of scrub oaks is shrouded in yellow steam, theoff-venting of a nearby juvenile jail. If Brandenburg had died at this remoteLaurel asylum in the final years before its court-ordered 1991 closing, theJustice Department would have sent in medical experts to find out why. A federalsuit filed by residents' families had exposed so much medical neglect thatJustice's civil rights division had joined the action, investigating everyfatality.But a 1997 death inside a D.C. Family Services house in Tenleytown--where thecourt rescue had eventually deposited Brandenburg--would be a far more secretiveaffair.Stubbs, co-owner of D.C. Family Services, told The Post early last month that hewas too busy to answer questions about Brandenburg's death, or other deaths inhis homes, and did not return subsequent phone calls. His partner, Gaither, whois the company's executive director, also did not return repeated calls. Lastweek, Stubbs and Gaither, through their lawyer, declined to comment.Employees observe that Stubbs doesn't often visit the 14 homes for the retardedthat had helped him buy his own million-dollar home off Foxhall Road. But onJan. 10, 1997, his presence was required.For two years his company's nursing staff had failed to carry out acardiologist's orders for medicating Brandenburg's long-standing heartcondition, health department records show, while improperly medicating one ofhis housemates with Valium. On Jan. 8, Brandenburg, who was rarely sedated, wastranquilized, too. And something went wrong.That morning, a staff nurse gave him an injection of Ativan without the requireddoctor's orders, city records indicate. The nurse did so, group home recordsshow, in the belief that another staffer would be taking him to a minor medicaltest that might frighten him. Brandenburg would not make it to any test. For thenext two days, records show, Brandenburg couldn't stand without assistance andcould barely open his eyes. He sweated and shook; staffers trying to make himeat saw bread fall from his lips, unchewed. But group home officials did notcall a doctor or dial 911.Nor did a health department inspector who happened to come to the house Jan. 8for an annual survey of the home's quality of care. She found Brandenburg in astupor on a back-room couch. The home's records indicate that staff memberssought to hide the extent of his incapacity. They weren't successful. Over thenext two days, records show, the inspector diligently documented Brandenburg'spoor condition--and her discovery that the staff had lied to her about thecircumstances surrounding the tranquilization. But she left the house withouttaking action to secure treatment for him.Early the next morning, his stupor ended.House logs and other records say that counselors checked Brandenburg every 15 or30 minutes in the early hours of Jan. 10. Then at 5:30 a.m., his breathingsuddenly grew labored, they said, so they dialed 911.But ambulance records and staff interviews indicate that paramedics who arrivedfour minutes after the 911 call found a body already cold. Brandenburg had beendead for hours.Police officers arrived soon after the paramedics, as they do for sudden deathsin private homes. Officers didn't note the discrepancy between house logs and astiff corpse, records show. Nor did they learn of the tranquilization and thediscrepancies surrounding it from health inspection officials who joined them atthe house, records and interviews indicate. The subsequent police report wouldinstead cite Elliot Gersh, a pediatrician under contract with the group homecompany. City records show that Gersh arrived at the house three hours after the911 call and told officers what he would later record on Brandenburg's deathcertificate: that the 57-year-old had probably died of heart disease.Gersh--who had examined Brandenburg the day before the drugging and describedhim in medical records as "alert, smiling" and recovered from a cold--said in aninterview that health inspectors and group home officials hadn't informed him ofthe two days of sickness following tranquilization. He filled out the deathcertificate, he said, at the request of group home officials.By law, bodies of those who die unexpectedly in private homes must be sent tothe morgue for examination. To prevent evidence tampering, police are supposedto guard the body in the home until a medical examiner arrives. Gersh orderedthe autopsy as required. But by noon--many hours before the pathologistappeared--police officers had departed the scene, group home records andinterviews show.In the interval, Stubbs appeared. With the help of a house counselor, group homerecords show, he moved Brandenburg's body from the scene of death, hissecond-floor bedroom, to the basement. At some point after the death, internalFamily Services reports indicate, Brandenburg's body was washed, for unknownreasons."Totally inappropriate," said Chief Medical Examiner Jonathan L. Arden, whoassumed his position last year. He reviewed the case at the request of The Post.The file was slim: Health inspectors had not passed on what they knew about thetranquilization and its aftermath. "This office should have been told," Ardensaid."I am outraged, hearing this," said Ivan C.A. Walks, the new director of theDepartment of Public Health, of his inspection unit's failure to intervene whenthe oversedation was discovered or to report what it knew to police afterBrandenburg's death. "I can't defend these actions.""We're going to have to reopen this investigation," said Executive AssistantPolice Chief Terrance W. Gainer, who also examined police records at The Post'srequest.Reopening the case will be difficult. Brandenburg's body was released from themorgue and cremated without an autopsy. In an interview earlier this year, DHSofficial Frances Bowie, who until recently headed the department's developmentaldisabilities unit, explained why: Brandenburg's two sisters had refused topermit an autopsy. DHS officials said the sisters, who they said were Jehovah'sWitnesses and would not identify, had religious objections to the practice.The Post located the sisters. One of them, Gloria Donovan, is a longtime memberof All Saints Catholic Church in Manassas. The other, Juanita DeButts, worshipsand teaches Sunday school at the First Baptist Church of La Plata. "We're notJehovah's Witnesses, and we were never asked about an autopsy," said Donovan,whose brother had just spent the Christmas holidays at her home. "It didn'thappen."Bowie today says she cannot recall the source of her information about therefused autopsy, and DHS Director Williams acknowledges that agency officialshave no records to support their previous assertions. Williams also confirmedthat this summer, after Post inquiries about the death, case manager DwayneFranklin shredded his records on Brandenburg's death. On Nov. 4, Franklin wasfired for the shredding.In an interview, Franklin, who had been rated "excellent" in a job evaluationthis year, admitted destroying some documents and otherwise not acting on whathe considered obvious and suspicious inconsistencies surrounding Brandenburg'sdeath. But Franklin said that DHS officials, fearing bad publicity, were makinghim a scapegoat for doing what superiors consistently encouraged case managersto do: "hush up problem deaths and other screw-ups.""Sad to say, our division didn't care who died or when or how, so they didn'tgive us the tools to investigate," Franklin said. "The truth is that the agencywas sloppy from the top on down, and clients paid for it in illnesses, rapes anddeaths."The city delivered another client to Brandenburg's empty bed, records show.Stubbs and Gaither kept collecting $ 6 million a year in public money to carefor the retarded. And none of the many city officials who knew about thetranquilization, the slow death and the evidence of corpse-tampering breathed aword to the family members whose names Brandenburg had struggled to recordbeneath his own in the leaves of his Living Bible."This is devastating." The voice of Brandenburg's sister Gloria breaks. "Theyall told us Fred died in his sleep."It was meant to be a decade of recompense, with progressive laws and amplefunding marshaled to the mission. After Forest Haven, in group homes fromCleveland Park to Capitol View, long-warehoused individuals would realize theirpotential to live, learn and work under the protection of their community'swatchful eye. A Post series in March chronicled how, when profit-mindedentrepreneurs flocked to a suddenly lucrative field, taxpayer-financedprotections succumbed to crasser interests. A muddy stretch of Section T inNortheast's Glenwood Cemetery offers a useful vantage from which to view thereform effort's least revocable failure.Here, shadowed by sweet-faced marble angels and 19th-century mausoleums, lie theDistrict government's unmonied or unclaimed dead: pressed-wood or aluminumcoffins packed tight in narrow lots, for reasons of municipal economy. A plasticdisk numbered "192" marks the grave of James Scott, a man whose December 1994death has carved a particular trace in the minds of the retarded men and womenwho survived him.He passed the days as a food-service trainee at a for-profit company, PSI, thatruns the city's largest day program for the retarded. He didn't say much, thisbald 55-year-old with autistic tendencies and off-brand sneakers, while packingtuna-on-white into plastic wrap. He wasn't too much trouble, either, formercounselors recall, until the lunch time when his caretakers fatally injured him.As Scott's retarded peers watched, PSI therapists physically "restrained" himafter he became "agitated" and threatened a program mate, according to reportsstaffers wrote at the time. Their attempts at restraint dislocated his spine andparalyzed him, according to reports that D.C. General physicians wrote later.But after injuring him, PSI records show, staffers attributed his "rag doll"stance and his guttural cries of "Arm, arm!" to "behavioral hysteria."Nearly two hours passed, PSI and ambulance records show, before his caretakersdialed 911. Hospitalized in intensive care, Scott died four weeks later. And oneby one, the agencies that had been assigned to protect him averted their gaze.The police vowed to investigate a death that the medical examiner's office,after an autopsy, classified as homicide. Five years later, Assistant ChiefGainer examined the file and expressed dismay: "This case got lost innever-never land."DHS officials said, after Scott's death, that they would investigate whether PSIwas using excessive force on some of the disabled people it receives $ 10million a year to care for. But court records show that DHS's chief overseer ofday programs at the time, Arnett Smith, was busy with private side deals withnumerous group home operators (including Stubbs, who hired Smith as a consultantwhen he applied for public funding for his new group home network). Smith, whodeclined to comment, was recently indicted on federal conspiracy charges afterThe Post reported that he bought a private home for another day programoperator--a psychologist now charged with Medicaid fraud--while he was supposedto be monitoring her.Reports of at least 18 other PSI injuries accumulated in government files: awoman beaten with a baseball bat by counselors, for instance, and another womaninjured, as Scott had been, when staff members restrained her. The promisedinvestigation never materialized. "It appears we didn't do one," said DHSspokeswoman Madelyn Andrews.Each retarded ward has a court-appointed lawyer designated to represent hisinterests. Records show that DHS officials didn't locate Scott's. Each formerresident of Forest Haven gets an extra level of protection: a federal courtmonitor assigned to make sure he gets the services the city has promised him.DHS didn't inform the monitor of Scott's death until this September, five yearsafter the fact. And DHS delegated the task of notifying his relatives to theowner of his group home, an entrepreneur named Carl Peterson who had previouslypocketed his clients' small disability checks, health inspection records show.He would subsequently go to federal prison, convicted of spending public fundsmeant for the retarded on go-go dancers he called "group home consultants."No relatives were found. No criminal charges or administrative fines were leviedagainst employees or officials of PSI. And the city appropriated Scott'ssavings--the disability payments that hadn't been stolen--to finance hisfuneral, which was held at a mortuary owned by a DHS caseworker's husband. Scotthelped pay as well for his own interment beneath a numbered plastic disk.Questioned recently by The Post, PSI President Elizabeth Abramowitz responded inwriting that Scott had not died of injuries caused by her staff. After beingtold of autopsy and police reports, Abramowitz said she was unable to discussScott's death or other injuries at PSI because to do so would violate theprivacy rights of the retarded.The realm of the retarded dead resounds with such silences in part because of a1978 law backed by well-intentioned advocates. In mandating that the city keepextensive records on the health of its retarded clients, the law stipulates thatdetails of those records be kept private to preserve dignity. The District citesthat privacy clause to withhold information about deaths--a policy that mostrecently slowed a Justice Department civil rights investigation sparked by ThePost's March series. For months, District officials refused on privacy groundsto turn over records to Justice and have since obtained a temporary court sealto keep the results of the federal investigation from the public.The incomplete records District agencies released to The Post suggest that theinterests being protected weren't strictly those of the retarded. Officials hadinked out not just the names of the disabled dead but the names of companiespaid public money to care for them, city caseworkers and health inspectorscharged with monitoring them--and occasionally even high-level governmentofficials. But the heavily blackened records are, in their own way, revealing.They show that the failure to investigate deaths was a systemic, multi-agencybreakdown:* At DHS, the first line of defense for the retarded, caseworkers filed awaymany cases suggestive of neglect--the middle-aged woman who died of a urinarytract infection, for instance. But they did refer several troubling cases to theagency's internal investigative unit. The investigators were unable to document,after months of inquiries, that they had done more than simply obtain deathcertificates and close the files.* The city's Medicaid office was assigned to investigate deaths in the 80percent of city group homes and day programs that receive federal funds, a totalof about $ 80 million a year. That office was able to document two deathinvestigations. The first, from 1994, was a brief description of a scene of amurder. The second was an investigation ordered by the mayor last summer, afterthe highly publicized death of Patrick Dutch, who was left for hours in thegroup home van. The investigation found that the house manager and van driver"appeared not to remember many of the details that might give someone a betterunderstanding why this tragedy happened."* Inspectors at the Department of Public Health, charged with making inquirieswhen suspicions are brought to their attention, did a few death investigations,too. The record shows they averaged one per year. When they found wrongdoing,they asked the group home for "a plan of correction," as they did inBrandenburg's case. They couldn't assess a fine--such as the $ 100,000 penaltythat can be levied on District nursing homes for neglect--because the city'sattorneys have never done the administrative work needed to enforce an existinglaw that allows monetary sanctions on group homes. Inspectors could havereferred death cases to the police. They haven't done so in more than a decade.If individual cases are grim, the aggregate is startling. While the exact numberof retarded people who died since 1993 is unknown, the 116 that The Post countedwould give the District a death rate far higher than that of similarjurisdictions.The study of mortality among the deinstitutionalized retarded is still in itsacademic infancy: Data sets are small, government numbers vary in reliability,and medical issues differ among populations. Still, the District has had morethan three times the number of deaths found in a roughly equivalent New Jerseypopulation and twice as many as found in a Pennsylvania population. TheDistrict's death rate significantly exceeds that of California's troubled grouphome system, where University of California-Riverside faculty members have beenextensively researching mortality in community-based care."I wonder somewhat," said Wesley Vinner, a high-functioning retarded man whogrew up at Forest Haven. "It's like we're dying left and right in programs thatsay they protect us."One reason, The Post found, is that city officials repeatedly failed torecognize and correct disturbing patterns of neglect.In 1990, when examining deaths at Forest Haven, Justice Department investigatorsspotted one particularly alarming trend: Residents were dying of aspirationpneumonia, which sometimes occurs when the bedridden are fed inexpertly andfluids build up in their lungs. A prominent D.C. law firm, acting pro bono, suedthe city on behalf of six dead Forest Haven residents, alleging delayed andinadequate treatment. The District settled for more than $ 1 million.The Post, reviewing death certificates and hospital records, identified 10aspiration-related deaths since 1993 in group homes scattered across the city.None of those deaths prompted an investigation by city officials, records show.Tony Snider, age 26. Sheila Payne, age 32. Steven Vasquez, age 39. Midway downthe aspiration death list is Gloria Davis, a much-loved competitor in theball-toss at the Special Olympics, who died at age 33.Profoundly retarded people such as Davis can't articulate pain, which is onereason their caretakers, the good ones, are remarkable to watch. They develop ahyper-perception that lets them scent an infection, read pain in the blinking ofan eye. Davis, nonverbal and nonambulatory since birth, had been placed, afterForest Haven, in what was supposed to be a bastion of such sensitivity. TheAstor Place SE group home where she lived is one of 34 in the District owned ormanaged by Voca, a division of a Louisville-based corporation, and supported by$ 25 million a year in federal funds. Its direct-care workers earn as much as $12 an hour, and its foyers are fresh from the broom. But troubling deathshappened in Voca's homes, too.One evening in 1997, the company's records show, Gloria Davis started spewingmucous from her nose and mouth--the hallmark of a major aspiration. Davisalerted caretakers to her distress the only way she could--by shaking her bed.This cry for help was heard at 10 p.m., house records show. But her caretakersdidn't dial 911. They dialed group home administrators. Records show that aseries of conversations ensued--about the fact that Davis was struggling tobreathe, that "the situation was getting worse," that an ambulance should becalled. But 70 minutes passed before anyone actually called one. Too late. Davisarrived at the hospital a few minutes before midnight and was declared dead.Voca's initial accounts of the evening understated by 40 minutes the intervalbetween Davis's distress signal and the call to 911, company records show.Cleveland Corbett, vice president of Voca, said that the inaccuracy was aninadvertent error on the part of harried caretakers and that he "wouldn'tsecond-guess the staff's judgment" on the 70-minute delay.A month after Gloria Davis's death, at a home run by Voca in Northeast,42-year-old Raynard Olds had a seizure so propulsive that his head left a holein his bedroom wall. His neck was critically injured on impact. A caretaker cameimmediately to find him on the floor, fully conscious. I can't get up, Oldsexplained. Ambulance records show he didn't arrive at the hospital for an hourand a half after his violent fall. He died a month later from his injuries.Voca's Corbett described the time lapse between injury and hospitalization as"appropriate given the professional judgments involved."Kenny Holmes, who lived in a Voca home three blocks from Olds's, also had towait for care. He swallowed three small plastic bags while his counselor enjoyeda "fish and bread" dinner.Profoundly retarded, Holmes interpreted the world through his mouth, like aninfant, but with the dangerous coordination of an adult. He swallowed wholecorncobs, ate his own shoelaces. Unable to speak, he couldn't call for help whenhelp was required. That's why Voca was paid $ 90,000 in public funds per year tokeep him safe.One August night, caretaker Linda Bowers settled in with her dinner on thecouch.According to an account she wrote of the evening--an account Bowers described inan interview with The Post as accurate--when Holmes emerged from his bedroom andobtained her attention, she sent him back inside and continued eating. Heretreated but then came out again. Go back to your room, she told him morefirmly, not leaving her meal. Again he did as he was told. Back in his room, hefinally got her attention--by issuing a great and stomach-turning gurgle,turning blue and thrashing on the floor. Bowers panicked and neglected toperform the Heimlich maneuver she had been trained to do, Voca records show.When Holmes got to the hospital, there was little to be done. He was declareddead of asphyxiation.Voca's "discharge summary" to DHS omitted Holmes's attempts to obtain Bowers'sattention and said Bowers called an ambulance 40 minutes before ambulancerecords show she did. Corbett called Bowers a caring employee and said, "Ibelieve the staff provided the information as they knew it at the time."If Holmes had died five blocks east, in Maryland, the government would have senta registered nurse to the scene to interview staff. A physician would havescoured his medical file, and a University of Maryland professor of pharmacologywould have studied the drugs he had been taking--their adequacy andinteractions. By governor's fiat, Maryland's state health departmentinvestigates every death in group homes except those of residents who have beendiagnosed as terminally ill.If Holmes had died in Delaware, the questioning of staff would have been led bya state long-term care official who is a former FBI investigator.If Holmes had died in Missouri, his group home might now be shuttered. Fourmonths after Holmes's death, a retarded man in a St. Louis facility swallowedrubber gloves and choked to death in his bedroom as a caretaker sat nearby.State officials conducted a months-long investigation, identified systemicshortcomings and closed the home.But Kenny Holmes died in the District of Columbia. Voca executives carried outthe only review done on his death. Bowers, those officials concluded, required atraining session in "calmness." She remains a caretaker with the company, aboutwhich Corbett can say accurately, "The city has never had a problem with usabout deaths."Breast cancer. Massive cardiac events. The complex medical conditions associatedwith Down syndrome. Some deaths The Post found were inevitable, and a few--atthe nonprofit Kennedy Institute, at the for-profit Metro Homes--were thoroughly,even mournfully, documented by group home officials. But some of the deaths thatweren't, like that of Helen Andrews, had consequences that resonated beyondgroup home doors.Eating her morning Cheerios, climbing a single flight of stairs--even the basicsseemed to tax her. Languid outings with her day program sometimes left hergulping for air, which was discomfiting to a 70-year-old with good manners. Thehigh-functioning Andrews lived in a caring home run by the nonprofit BlackLeadership and Christ's Kingdom Society, whose staffers regularly delivered herto the internist with whom it contracted for residents' care. Group home recordsshow that in April 1994, Fumikazu Kawakami, observing that Andrews had been"deteriorating significantly" for six months, diagnosed her condition: She wassuffering from arthritis and depression.Twelve days after he wrote her a prescription for an antidepressant calledZoloft, records show, she was dead of treatable, contagious tuberculosis.Kawakami did not return a reporter's phone calls. City officials turned over toThe Post a single document on Andrews's death, after inking out every fact butthe date and the cause of death: "Tuberculous."TB deaths, rarities in the metropolitan area, tend to make headlines and inspiremass testings, as the pernicious airborne bacteria can be passed to others in aslittle time as it takes an elevator to go from the first floor to the fifth.Fortunately, the vast majority of those infected can be cured with a low-costcourse of antibiotics--if they learn they've been exposed."I'm appalled," said Tom Wilds, president of St. John's Community Services,where, until she grew too weak to attend, Andrews was in a day program with adozen other retarded people. "Our clients and staff were exposed, and I am justlearning this now?"A short story and an old one: In the 1980s, an entrepreneur named WeldonFerguson opened a home for the retarded on 14th Street NW. In 1987, a doctorexamining one of Ferguson's residents found evidence of what he termed "sexualviolation." And in 1988, six retarded men who had lived at the home told aChannel 9 reporter that Ferguson had been molesting them in their bedrooms foryears and that DHS officials had--also for years--ignored their pleas for help.The story aired, the police swept in, and Ferguson pleaded guilty to assaultwith intent to sodomize, for which he got a short suspended sentence.The end. Almost.One of the deaths for which DHS lost records was that of LaVon Green, who'd beenamong those who told a grand jury he'd been a victim of Ferguson's assaults.Channel 9 reported that Green contracted HIV while living at Ferguson's house.He died of complications from AIDS last year. Weldon Ferguson, who said in aninterview he did not have HIV, was never ordered by the court to take an AIDStest.Asked whether other former residents of Ferguson's house had died similarly, DHSspokesman Andrews said: "We can't find the answer. We just don't know."They were unlikely money magnets, the refugees from Forest Haven, with theirtrash bags of clothes and stuffed animals. But as $ 1 billion flowed into D.C.'sgroup homes to pay for their care, charitable agencies were supplanted byentrepreneurs--in pronounced contrast to the situation in other states. To keepthe new providers honest, DHS had a handful of social workers who had come tothe city to be part of a nationally celebrated reform. But city officialsacknowledge that much of the task of analyzing medical records and challengingthe accounts of the new businesses was delegated to workers who had previouslygiven sponge baths and spooned applesauce at Forest Haven.Some of those new case managers cared deeply about clients they'd watched growup, but DHS officials had a vested interest in never training them toinvestigate deaths. These officials had weathered blistering criticism forconditions at Forest Haven and then, under court-imposed deadline, hadpersonally chosen the group home operators who would supplant the asylum. Ifthese new homes were found wanting, where would the residents go?Today, the impulse to extenuate the circumstances of death is quickened by afear of liability. As city officials note, some low-income families see a deathby scalding or by broken neck as an opportunity for windfall litigation. Becauseretarded people have little lost-earning potential, big settlements are rare.Still, one mother contacted by The Post about her son, who died this year, asked"America to know my pain" and a reporter to find her a lawyer. She last visitedher son, she later noted, in 1989.DHS's unwillingness to investigate is facilitated by a city agency that shouldbe the last bulwark of accountability: the medical examiner's office. Manyjurisdictions require an autopsy on all deceased public wards who did not havedocumented organic diseases. D.C.'s Chief Medical Examiner Arden previouslyworked in New York City, where autopsies are performed on approximately 90percent of retarded wards. The District has no such policy mandates. Only one in13 got a completed autopsy, The Post found. In several cases, bodies sent to themorgue were left unexamined, without explanation, by city pathologists."If you're going to point fingers, point here," said Arden. "We didn'tinvestigate when we should have. We didn't do right by these men and women."Then again, the vast majority of the retarded dead never arrived at the morguein the first place. City records show that, even when signs of neglect had beendocumented, DHS officials consistently failed to request autopsies for retardedpeople without families--people for whom the agency served as the de facto "nextof kin."And sometimes, as with a woman named Betty Tunstall, they closed the file witheven fewer formalities.As the decade began, Tunstall embodied the transforming promise of the grouphome system. Today, hers is a life twice lost.After Forest Haven, where she had lived since the Truman administration,Tunstall was placed in a Southeast group home owned by a company called We Care,whose director was a former aide to Marion Barry. We Care received $ 154,000 perclient per year, one of the highest Medicaid rates in the country. After Chapter11 bankruptcy reorganization, six settled sexual harassment suits against itsdirector and allegations of misspent funds, the organization has been renamedIndividual Development Inc. and is chaired by David Wilmot, one of Barry'slongtime personal attorneys. "I don't know what those guys were doing, frankly,"said Wilmot, who said his homes, which are managed by Voca, now provideexcellent care.There was a robust cocaine trade in Betty Tunstall's new front yard, formerstaffers recall. Nonetheless, deinstitutionalization would suit her.Nonverbal, said the Forest Haven records."Pork chops and fries," Betty Tunstall said one night at the sight of herfavorite dinner, rendering her caretakers bug-eyed at the stove.After 40 years, Tunstall was pushing boundaries, finding words. "Look," shedemanded, as she turned on the house radio by herself. She mastered theessential pronoun of communal living: "mine." This was the miracle thatreformers had worked to witness--what they dreamed their legacy would be.For five years now, this miracle has been buried in an unmarked plot in PrinceGeorge's County that even the cemetery director gets lost trying to find. HowTunstall got there, DHS records do not say. She was interred at age 50 but neverofficially declared dead. City officials shelved her case without a deathcertificate.It's illegal in the District to bury a person without certifying death. "Veryunusual," said Urbane Bass, head of D.C.'s vital records agency. "It's a crime."Also a mystery. What happened to the $ 70 monthly disability checks that, SocialSecurity Administration records show, group home administrators kept receivingin her name for months after her unrecorded death?It would be easy, given cases such as Brandenburg's and Tunstall's, to paintlife inside group homes in the hue of Clockwork Orange. The reality is subtler:an incremental coarsening of sensibility. Take the big white house on MapleStreet NW--the one with Christmas garlands bedecking the portico--where livedgentle, 28-year-old Reginald Lovette.Lovette's roommate, a 250-pound retarded man named Bernard Eaton, had hisgrievances, as roommates do. He thought Lovette touched his television, snoredtoo loudly, got preferential treatment from the staff. Eaton sometimesregistered his protests by attacking Lovette while he slept. When Lovette wasawake, police documents show, Eaton frequently attempted to strangle him.Lovette, who city records say had come into government care after a violentchildhood with a psychotic father, repeatedly asked staff members to shield himfrom what they would later describe as "constant abuse." But Lovette was left toshare a room with Eaton. And DHS left uninvestigated a series of reports by thehome's neighbors. Residents were wandering the streets, confused and unattended.Residents were in the back yard, chilled and naked, with none of theircaretakers in sight.And then one night just before Christmas 1994, Eaton succeeded in an act he'dbeen edging toward all year. He strangled Lovette with a baby-blue bedsheet.Police reports describe the battleground: bed and nightstand askew, pillow gory,body in checkered pajamas splayed on floor. The scene comported with what Eatonconfessed. Not long after midnight, he had a prolonged fight with Lovette beforegetting the sheet to strangle him. But the employees in the home--charged withchecking hourly on Lovette and his housemates--didn't rush to the rescue. Policeand health department records show they were missing in action all night anddidn't find Lovette's body until after 7 a.m., by which time rigor mortis hadset in. After discovering the killing, health inspection records show, staffersdid nothing. Only when a member of the morning shift appeared 20 minutes laterdid someone decide to call the police.Health inspectors subsequently arriving on the scene noted a tangential oddity:There was no food in the house for the residents to eat. As the group home'sowner, Samelia Green, would later explain to inspectors, the staff supervisorhad probably falsified grocery store receipts and pocketed the cash meant tofinance a week of clients' meals.Who exactly were Lovette's caretakers in the house on Maple Street? A check ofDistrict and Maryland criminal records indicates that they included a convictedcocaine dealer, a convicted crack dealer and a twice-convicted thief and crackuser who had just been released from jail.To care for the retarded in, say, Florida, one must pass a criminal backgroundcheck, secure an FBI clearance and attest in writing to exacting standards ofmoral character. The District recently put a similar law on its books, but cityadministrators have yet to do the necessary paperwork to enforce it. Noeffective curb on criminal caretakers. No trace of a response to panickedneighbors. No protection for a young man in bed. And after Lovette's killing,little change.Eaton, who under D.C. law could not be held responsible for the homicide becauseof his mental deficiencies, went to live with his mother in NortheastSamelia Green, who declined to comment, continued collecting her public money.Felons went on caring for the survivors. And DHS officials didn't supply asingle record on the case.Desmond Brown's fingers curled inward like rams' horns. His slender torso was apermanent L. He was retarded. He was blind. And what of it? He cranked hisfavorite Santana tape and decided he could dance on his knees. If fate hadplayed a trick on him, he seemed to get the joke. Among so many limits, said hispresence, there may still be so much life.Two years after city and group home officials concealed the truth of the deathof Fred Brandenburg, 38-year-old Desmond Brown was in another home owned bydentist Arthur Stubbs.One rainy day in January, Brown, who had cerebral palsy, got wet. In city files,there is one version of what happened next: a 10-sentence memo, titled"Investigation," by Stubbs's partner, Sheila Gaither. It says Brown came downwith a cold but quickly recovered. When his "cold symptoms" returned a weeklater, group home officials whisked him to the hospital.City records and the accounts of his group home and day program caretakersprovide a painful counter-narrative. From late January to late February 1999,Brown's care supervisor, Patricia Thorpe, repeatedly petitioned superiors togive the "sick," "unresponsive" Brown treatment stronger than Sudafed. "He wasdistressed, and I felt we shouldn't take chances," Thorpe said in an interview.But company officials declined to take Brown to a doctor."They'd say, he's fine, just give him soup, give him water," recalled GenevieveRuffin, a veteran aide at Brown's group home and one of four DCFS staffers whonoted that dialing 911 without authorization can get a person fired. "WhenDesmond couldn't eat, they said it was a 'behavior problem,' " Ruffin said. "Imean, even I could tell by looking at him--it was pneumonia."As Brown was wasting away, residents of other DCFS homes were hurting, too.Health inspectors found that one woman had been improperly treated forrespiratory distress, two others had been repeatedly and improperlytranquilized, and many more weren't getting medical treatments that had beenordered by their doctors. Meanwhile, crucial day-to-day care was being handledby a crew of minimally trained welfare recipients. DHS had given Stubbs andGaither a multimillion-dollar contract to help D.C. welfare mothers find jobs.Until it was discovered that a DHS official involved in awarding the contractlived in a home owned by Stubbs, the deal gave the dentist and his partner adouble windfall: bonuses from their welfare-reform contract for placing workersin jobs and tax credits at the group homes for hiring welfare recipients.Somewhere near the bottom of the incentive structure ranked the life of oneDesmond Brown."Saving money, saving money: That's all we heard," said Thorpe, who eventuallytook a job in the Maryland group home system.Brown couldn't negotiate a similar exit."Step out!" he'd regally gesture when his guardians irked him--a stylish coverfor a physical fact: Brown himself was trapped. He grew sicker, until one Fridaynight his labored breathing and shaking left his caretakers almost as distraughtas he was. But as with Brandenburg, the problem was kept inside the house. Sweatpoured off Brown's emaciated body, records and interviews show. He tore at hisclothes in anguish. He gasped for air. But DCFS supervisors decided that hedidn't require the services of a doctor. Brown was "doing fine" that Fridayevening, says the brief DCFS "investigation." He was desperately ill, sayinterviews and city records. In the house ledger, Ruffin and a co-workerdetailed more than Brown's unremedied suffering. They recorded his horrifiedrecognition."I am dying," a retarded man informed his caretakers. "I am going to die."It was as if, in that moment on the last night he ever spoke, the blind mancould see what lay ahead. The Saturday morning when Gaither granted permissionto take him to Providence Hospital. The emergency tracheotomy. The immediatedispatch to intensive care, where yellow ghosts attended in isolation gear. Thesilvery balloon for his 39th birthday, hovering above a tangle of plastic tubes.And then a casket crammed alongside 11 other caskets in a single cemetery plot.Like so many others failed by the government that promised to save them, DesmondBrown in the end received a group grave with a plastic marker.On that marker, another joke Brown might have gotten. No name, just the digits137. A number, as if someone were counting.Staff researchers Alice Crites and Heming Nelson contributed to this report.THE NAMES OF THE DEAD,1993-99*: Josephine Gaines Majorie Haas Earl Veit Donzer Ray Fonville MarieDickens Vernon Brown Dora Mae Christian Deborah Lynn Key Theodore Turner RuthMae Boaze Richard Smallwood Cheryl Ann Bush Patrick Wyman Dixon Robert AllenWatts Nancy Williams Joanne Marie Curtain Alonzo Fouch Helen Andrews CalvinNielson Joyce King Richard Julius Braddy Joshua Brooks Viola Tillyer ErnestDurity Kevin Paul Turner Marguerite Spaulding Brugiere Palmieri Steven VasquezCecil Gobble Lee Robert Shipman Isaac Lloyd Williams Male, full name unknownDaniel Bern James Scott Reginald Lovette Antonio McCullers Betty TunstallLawrence P. Toney Hazel Harris Phyllis Mallory Female, full name unknown DavidAbney Stephen Sellows Dorothy Simmons David Wyatt Full name unknown PeterChipouras Grace Marie Arnold Antonio Silva Eugene Robinson John Wesley HannaClara French Levander Johnson Unknown female Male, full name unknown EduardoEchaves Kenny Holmes Female, full name unknown Female, full name unknown EmmaWilliams Cassandra Cobb James Henry Wilson Henrietta Green Kenneth Arnold GavinDenise Allison Smith Steve Edward Moore Melvin Seymore Fred Brandenburg FreddieDeperini Francis Hanfman Sheila Payne Louis Parnell Gloria Marie Davis RoyCalloway John Motika Raynard Olds Herbert Scott Sara Walford Martin Tony SniderHelena Taylor Male, full name unknown Charles Rowley Kermit Gleaton Gary N.Thomas William Hillery Full name unknown Michael Gilliland Full name unknownAntonio Lucas James Fairfax Male, full name unknown Lemeka Edon Eleanor GleasonJames Smallwood Full name unknown Male, full name unknown Margaret MarieBicksler Hilda Redman LaVon Green Christopher Lane Thelma Goldberg Henry LakerDennis Edward Jackson Carlis Spears Nannie Jones Reginald Murray Desmond BrownHazel Pinkney A. Rowe Geraldine Howell Patrickk Dutch James Dean Joseph AddisonAnnie WilliamsV. Bennett Female, full name unknown*City records regarding the mentally disabled contain a variety of spellings forcertain names.Scores of Deaths, No InvestigationsAfter searching its files for seven months, the D.C. Department of HumanServices, the municipal custodian of D.C.'s retarded wards, was able to documentthat 69 of approximately 1,190 retarded individuals in its residential caresystem died between January 1993 and September 1999. A Post investigationidentified 47 additional wards who died during that time. The Post also foundevidence of delayed treatment, neglect, falsification of circumstances or otherlapses in 34 cases -- well over one-third.116 DEATHS identified by the Post investigation69 NUMBER OF DEATHS the Department of Human Services documented by November.8 AUTOPSIES COMPLETED by the D.C. medical examiner0 INVESTIGATIONS DOCUMENTED by the Department of Human ServicesNOTE: Studies of the mortality of the mentally retarded in community programshave found that a surge in the death rate is common in the first year afterdeinstitutionalization. In order to provide the least inflated analysis of deathin the District in the 1990s, The Post studied deaths that occurred from January1993, 14 months after the closing of Forest Haven, to September 1999.For More InformationTo see additional documents gathered by The Post, go to www.washingtonpost.com/metro. Katherine Boo will host an online discussion, at www.washingtonpost.com,at 1 p.m. tomorrow.CORRECTION-DATE: December 6, 1999CORRECTION:In yesterday's front-page article about fatal neglect at the District's homesfor the mentally disabled, nearly two paragraphs were dropped on Page A33 insome editions because of a production error. The complete story can be read onThe Post's Web site, www.washingtonpost.com. The missing text, which dealt withthe failure to do an autopsy on Fred Brandenburg, is as follows:Reopening the case will be difficult. Brandenburg's body was released from themorgue and cremated without an autopsy. In an interview earlier this year, DHSofficial Frances Bowie, who until recently headed the department's developmentaldisabilities unit, explained why: Brandenburg's two sisters had refused topermit an autopsy. DHS officials said the sisters, who they said were Jehovah'sWitnesses and whom they would not identify, had religious objections to thepractice.The Post located the sisters. One of them, Gloria Donovan, is a longtime memberof All Saints Catholic Church in Manassas. The other, Juanita DeButts, worshipsand teaches Sunday school at the First Baptist Church of La Plata. "We're notJehovah's Witnesses, and we were never asked about an autopsy," said Donovan,whose brother had just spent the Christmas holidays at her home. "It didn'thappen."