A little-known provision in the Housing and Economic Recovery Act, recentlysigned into law by President Bush, is supposed to help home buyers understandhow much debt they are taking on to purchase their home.The law requires clear disclosure to ensure that borrowers know their maximummonthly payment -- based on the maximum interest rate allowed under the terms oftheir loan.The legislation requires that lenders disclose the information to borrowers nolater than seven days before closing so borrowers can shop around if they arenot satisfied with the terms.This is a good but not great provision of the law.While it's good that borrowers will get more information before signing theirloan documents, the information may still be coming too late. It's highlyunlikely many borrowers will stop the process so close to closing, even afterreceiving the disclosure.Since homes will continue to be sold and mortgages will be made, the take-awaylesson from the current housing crisis is to be better informed. And you canstart by reading my pick for the Color of Money Book Club for August.Part of the reason we're in this mortgage mess is that many borrowers naivelybelieved what mortgage professionals were telling them and didn't verify theinformation or shop around for a better deal. Some applicants didn't carefullyexamine the loan documents that would weigh them down with hundreds of thousandsof dollars in debt for decades to come. Others didn't question many of the feesthey were charged."Financial rape happens every day," Carolyn Warren writes in her book "MortgageRip-Offs and Money Savers" (John Wiley & Sons, $17.95).I know this is strong language, but it comes from someone who should know. Formore than 12 years, Warren has worked in the mortgage industry. She spent a yearworking for a division of Countrywide Financial, which faltered under the weightof bad loans and was taken over by Bank of America. Who better to help younavigate the mortgage loan process than an insider who knows the many tricks andtraps in the industry?"Most home buyers or people refinancing their loans know there are financialbooby traps waiting, so they're on the lookout for scams and junk fees," Warrenwrites. "Nevertheless, they're still paying way too much."For example, some lenders are trying to make up for less loan business thesedays by making more money per borrower through higher junk fees. "I'm seeing newjunk fees and larger junk fees," said Warren, who now runs a business thatreviews potential borrowers' good-faith estimates to look for excessive charges.Warren advises borrowers to watch for multiple fees that cover the same servicethough they may be described in different terms. She points to fees that arelabeled as an "administration fee" or "underwriting fee." If a borrower asksenough questions they may find the fees -- ranging from $800 to $1,200 in somecases -- are often for the same thing."It's like double-dipping," she said in an interview. "There's no purpose forboth these fees other than to pad profit."Warren said she'd recently seen a new fee for documents sent by e-mail. Somecompanies are charging borrowers for printing loan documents receivedelectronically."I've seen fees anywhere from $50 to $150," she said. "In my opinion, that'slike a restaurant charging you more for napkins."I don't think for a moment that, even with more disclosure and scrutiny, themortgage industry is going to do better by borrowers. Potential home buyers aregoing to have to be a lot savvier to avoid being taken advantage of. And yes,that means doing research, as simple as that advice sounds.Whether you are new to the mortgage process or a longtime homeowner, you'll findsomething in Warren's book that will help you spend less on your next loan.* * *To become a member of the Color of Money Book Club, all you have to do is readthe recommended book. If you have a question about ways to save on your nextmortgage or avoid being ripped off, join me at noon Aug. 28 at http://www.washingtonpost.com for a live discussion with Warren.In addition, every month I randomly select readers to receive the recommendedbook, donated by the publisher. For a chance to win a copy of "Mortgage Rip-Offsand Money Savers," send an e-mail to colorofmoney@washpost.com Please includeyour name and a mailing address.· On the air: Michelle Singletary discusses personal finance Tuesdays on NPR's"Day to Day" program and at http://www.npr.org.· By mail: Readers can write to her at The Washington Post, 1150 15th St. NW,Washington, D.C. 20071.· By e-mail: singletarym@washpost.comComments and questions are welcome, but because of the volume of mail, personalresponses are not always possible. Please note that comments or questions may beused in a future column, with the writer's name, unless a specific request to dootherwise is indicated.