Choir rehearsal was supposed to end at 5 p.m., but Patrick Lundy is stillplowing ahead at 10 minutes past the hour. The director of the Eastern HighSchool Choir seems oblivious to the time and the exigencies tugging at his youngsingers on this September afternoon: One girl has to catch a bus for nightschool; another is supposed to baby-sit her sister; a third needs to get to anafter-school job at Best Buy.Don't do that, Lundy warns when he catches someone eyeing the clock. He placeshis hands on the electric piano and, once again, makes the singers repeat astring of lofty notes from "The Battle Hymn of the Republic." They've beenrehearsing this section of the song for 30 minutes."It sounds like your house is sinking," he tells the altos, where one girl issinging as flat as Kansas.Facing them, Lundy rolls up his shirtsleeves. If they sing this right, theBattle Hymn should be able to lift an audience right out of its seats. He won'tbe satisfied until it does.This dogged demand for excellence has been the Eastern High School Choir'shallmark for more than three decades. It's how Lundy and his predecessor, JoyceGarrett, built the ensemble into one of the D.C. public school system's mostrenowned cultural institutions. It's how the Eastern High School Choir has cometo perform for every president since Ronald Reagan, to make frequent appearancesat the Kennedy Center and on national television, to back up Aretha Franklin,Christina Aguilera and Stevie Wonder, and to bring in hundreds of thousands ofdollars for college scholarships along the way.But as the new school year gets underway at Eastern, those glories are only adistant memory. The choir -- and the school that houses it -- is struggling."Sit at the edge of your chairs," Lundy commands. "Don't slouch . . . I want itto sound like this." He strikes a note on the keyboard and belts out the elusivepart. His hands sweep back and forth like a broom, showing the rhythm he wants."You can go home when it's perfect," Lundy tells his singers.Loretta Miller listens from the second row of the alto section. Some of theother girls chatter when Lundy looks elsewhere. Loretta, however, remains quiet,with her hands folded in her lap and her spine as rigid as a rod. The16-year-old junior doesn't care what time rehearsal ends. Let it last all night.Few things make her as happy as being in the choir.Well, maybe being accepted at Massachusetts Institute of Technology. That wouldmake her happy, too. Neither of Loretta's parents went to college, but shethinks she might want to be an engineer. Her grades would seem to support suchan ambition. She's a top student at Eastern, with nearly all A's. But success inthis building doesn't always hold up in the broader world.Abruptly, Lundy halts the rehearsal. Listen, he says. The year's firstperformance, a show for Eastern's student body, is just three days away. If youall are really knockouts up there, Lundy says, then more students will want tojoin the choir.Despite its prestige and its scholarship money, the choir is in desperate needof bodies. The rehearsal room sits two-thirds empty, with stacks of unusedchairs in the back. By October, Lundy hopes to have 75 to 100 singers. Rightnow, that seems like fantasy. Last week there were about 45 singers. Today thereare 36.Lundy finishes his recruitment spiel and returns to hammering home "The BattleHymn of the Republic." It's almost 5:30. Suddenly, a soprano stands up. "Whereare you going?" asks another soprano."I quit," announces the first girl, who grabs her things and walks out. Nobodyelse pays her any attention, not even Lundy. Rehearsal carries on as if thishappens all the time.BUILT IN 1923, Eastern High School stands about one mile from the U.S. Capitoland looks like a red brick castle, its two soaring spires capped with parapets.The windows are all new, and visitors discover a grand marble staircase justinside the front door.Beyond that staircase, however, Eastern sheds any pretense of grandeur. Thelighting is poor. The walls are painted and patched in discordant shades ofoff-white. The doors to classrooms are made of heavy, windowless steel.Mysterious holes open in hallway ceilings.At the beginning of the school year, then-Superintendent Paul Vance announcedthat Eastern, along with Anacostia and Woodson, were the District high schoolsmost in need of "transformation." It's easy to understand why Eastern made thelist. The school's students performed abysmally on last year's Stanford 9standardized tests. Almost 82 percent of Eastern students scored "below basic"in math; nearly 56 percent scored "below basic" in reading; and no studentscored "advanced" in either category. Eastern, the school system declared,needed to "undergo reform at an aggressive, accelerated pace."None of Eastern's problems are new. In 1978, The Washington Post ran a series offront-page articles about Eastern, describing burned-out teachers, nearlyilliterate seniors, rampant absenteeism and dope smokers roaming the hallsinstead of attending class.Joyce Garrett, who became a music teacher at Eastern in 1972, remembers that eradifferently. The school may have had its academic troubles, but it also had asense of purpose, she says. "There were award-winning football teams,championship basketball teams and every kind of organization you can imagine,"she recalls. "When there were basketball games, the gym would be packed. Theteachers, we all went to the games. It was just a totally involved community,the school was back then." She acknowledges that she may have been wearingrose-colored glasses. "I don't know whether I thought it was so wonderfulbecause I was just twentysomething and glad to be there, but I did think it wasreally special."Garrett founded the Eastern High School Choir soon after arriving and pouredherself into the lives of her singers. Many came from poor homes and faced "somany challenges in their lives, from drugs, from sexual abuse. I heard everystory that anybody could tell anybody," she remembers. Parents in jail. Studentsliving in homeless shelters. Smart kids dropping out. "I became the teacher, thecounselor, somebody's mother . . . And it's not like you want to do this all thetime. But you're called to do it. You have to do it. If somebody comes to youand says, 'Somebody stole my coat.' And it's 20 degrees outside, then somebodyneeds to get them a coat. So, you just go on and get them the coat."The choir reached its musical apogee in 1988, when Garrett and her singersraised $160,000 to compete in the International Youth and Music Festival inVienna, Austria. "I wanted them to perform on the highest possible level. Iwanted them to be world class," Garrett says.They were. After the choir placed first in the high school competition, it wasfeatured in People magazine and on the front page of The Post. There was asegment on "CBS Sunday Morning." Reagan invited the singers to the White House.But the choir's success in Austria also led to an unsettling realization. Onlythree of the 20 seniors who competed there went on to college. Garrett realizedthat her students were, at once, musical superstars and academic nobodies.That's when Garrett developed a program called "Excellence Without Excuses." Thechoir would no longer be just about spawning great voices. It would be a vehiclefor teaching values. Chief among those values: college.Kaleen Cooper, who joined the choir in 1989 as a sophomore, says singing forJoyce Garrett changed his life. No one in his family had gone to college. No oneventured much beyond their Southeast Washington neighborhood. The choirbroadened Cooper's horizons and enabled him to envision a different future forhimself. He sang in Canada, in Florida, in New York City. "We traveled to a lotof places, met a lot of people that I wouldn't have met," says Cooper, now 29,who graduated from North Carolina A&T State University with a marketing degreeand received an MBA and a master's in international affairs from OhioUniversity. As a graduate student, he worked in Brazil, Swaziland and SouthAfrica. Today he works for a financial services company and lives with his wifeand two children in Northern Virginia.By the mid-'90s, most of the choir's singers were heading for universities:George Washington, Depauw, Hampton. A few even made it to Brown and Yale. At theend of every year, the choir's performance revenue is split among thecollege-bound seniors. Four-year members of the choir are eligible for at least$4,000. Three-year members can earn $3,000. Two-year members are eligible for$2,000. Last year, 18 or 19 seniors went on to college, taking $46,000 inscholarship money with them. Many seniors also receive additional scholarshipmoney from the colleges that recruit them to sing in their choirs.In 1995, Garrett formalized the choir's fundraising apparatus by starting anonprofit called the Eastern Choral Society. That allowed the choir to tapfoundation and corporate donors. (The Post has been a frequent patron. The Postalso supports a general scholarship program at Eastern.) But the choir's successdidn't seem to have much of an impact on the rest of the school. Eastern stillcalled itself "The Pride of Capitol Hill," but Garrett was finding it tougher toteach there. "Students were becoming so hostile," says Garrett, who retired fromteaching in 1999. "After school, the choir was coming along fine, but I had tobe there all through the battles during the day. And I wasn't enjoying it."While she continued to direct the choir full time, she began looking for aworthy successor.She eventually turned the reins over to Patrick Lundy, a former high schoolmusic teacher and a respected composer and director of adult choirs. Lundydescribes himself as the product of a happy, two-parent childhood inThomasville, Ga. His mother bought him his first keyboard when he was only 2.Lundy knew that many of Eastern's students didn't have the same advantages. Hesays he wanted to "give back."But Lundy lasted just two years as a music teacher at Eastern, calling what hefound there "a rude awakening." In an ideal high school, he says, "there arerules and regulations that we all must abide by. Simple things like, you must bein class and not walk the halls. I had kids just skip class, come into classlate. Most high schools have books and materials available. We would spend ourown dollars, copy our own materials outside the building, because the copiermachine was not working . . . Some of those things were frustrating."Lundy decided to resume full-time work with his church and adult choirs. Now hecomes to Eastern only after classes to rehearse the choir.Because Lundy doesn't teach at Eastern anymore, he can't prowl the hallways,looking for singers, as Garrett used to do. He acknowledges that he doesn't knowhis singers as well as he once did. "When I was there, the kids would comeduring lunchtime and really talk about whatever," Lundy says. It was easier tokeep track of who had made the honor roll or whose family had just been evicted."That connection is lost, and we are suffering because of it," Garrett says.It is increasingly difficult to recruit enough singers. A shrinking talent poolis part of the problem. When the choir was founded in 1972, more than 2,000students attended Eastern. This year enrollment has dropped to just over 900.Fewer kids at Eastern means fewer voices in the choir.Apathy also plays a part. "Most of the students at Eastern don't do nothing,"laments Onteia Cohen, a senior who serves as the choir's vice president and hassung with the group for four years. "They sit home and watch TV on the couch andeat." Boys, she says, are especially difficult to attract, because they oftenbecome targets of derision by classmates.Senior Cofield Williams, the choir's president and one of its few basses,suggests only half-jokingly that the choir would attract more males if itsrecruitment posters pictured the "breasts and behinds" of the female singersinstead of its current approach: "Sing Your Way to College."The board overseeing the Eastern Choral Society has been pondering the choir'sfuture. Maybe it's time to part ways with Eastern High School, says Garrett, whosits on the board: "We're wondering if we should make this a citywide program,that anyone from the city can come and sing in the choir, get our benefits andthe scholarships . . . We are at a turning point. We have to do somethingdifferent."LUNDY LEADS THE CHOIR into an unruly auditorium for the first performance of theyear. Only a few students are responsible for the ruckus, but it doesn't takemany to poison the atmosphere. As the choir moves down a side aisle, a boy inthe audience jeers at one of the tenors, saying loudly, "Look at that faggot."Principal Norman Smith takes the microphone to deliver a short, pointed lectureon proper conduct in the auditorium. At 55, Smith stands well over 6 feet tall,with a chest like a bookcase, a balding head and a grizzled beard. By dint ofsize alone, Smith projects a quality desirable in high school principals:presence.Eastern High School has been burning through a lot of administrators -- fiveprincipals in the past six years. Several were forced out. Smith has been on thejob for a little more than a month. He had retired from the Baltimore Countypublic school system after a six-year stint as principal at Milford MillAcademy. Then last summer a D.C. schools official called to offer Smith the helmat Eastern. The salary: $113,134. The commute: 1 hour 10 minutes. Theopportunity: "To try to make a difference," Smith says.Already, Smith has cracked down on Eastern's chronic class-cutters. During theschool day, Smith's voice will crackle across the PA system to announce: "Thisis a clean sweep. Teachers close and lock your doors." Then the security guardsround up any students caught in the hallway. They are herded into theauditorium, where detention slips are issued.The word among teachers is that Smith's experienced approach might finally bringstability to the building. "The kids primarily ran this place last year," sayshistory teacher Frederick Quick, who finds Smith "very supportive."Some students dutifully listen to Smith's lecture on auditorium etiquette -- butmostly those who were behaving to begin with.Backstage, the choir is preparing to perform before its first audience of theyear. It's the home crowd, and no doubt the toughest the singers will face allyear. "I'm scared y'all," Loretta Miller says.Patrick Lundy steps onstage first, taking his place behind the piano, his backto the audience. The singers follow, filing onto a bank of risers. They wearbluejeans, a bouquet of solid-colored T-shirts and forced smiles. A weakapplause greets their entrance.Lundy strikes a note, and soft voices project into the auditorium, like lightpenetrating a darkroom through a keyhole:Mine eyes have seen the glory of the coming of the LordHe is trampling out the vintage where the grapes of wrath are stored,He has loosed the fateful lightening of His terrible swift swordHis truth is marching on.Glory! Glory! HallelujahThere is drama in the faces and bodies of the singers, projecting both gravityand elation. When they sing, "The truth is marching," Cofield, the burly bass,rolls back his shoulders, inflates his chest and rocks his arms like a fieldmarshal.But the sound system doesn't do justice to the music. Lundy's piano is too loud.The risers are set too deep in the stage. It's impossible to appreciate,visually or acoustically, the richness of the show."I don't want to hear that [expletive] no more," says a student in the audience.Another never looks up from her homework.When the choir finishes, though, a quartet of girls, front and center, stand andapplaud. "Lorrretaaa," one shrill voice calls out lovingly.LORETTA NEEDS TO REPEAT the name of her first-period class. "Did you say worldculture?" I ask."No, floral culture," she corrects. Loretta shoves her textbooks into a locker,keeping a plastic grocery bag that is filled with green plastic grass. Loretta,a conservative dresser, wears bluejeans and a loose fitting T-shirt. That's notto say she doesn't sometimes bow to peer pressure when it comes to appearance.She stopped wearing her eyeglasses, she says, because "people kept telling me Ilooked studious." Now she settles for squinting at the chalkboard.This is Loretta's first year at Eastern. She transferred here from H.D. WoodsonHigh School, where she'd also been a choir member. "There was tone-deaf peoplein that choir. It would make the choir sound bad. [The director] had me singingsoprano," says Loretta, an alto. She knew she'd find something better atEastern.Back in middle school, she'd heard the Eastern choir perform. She was blownaway. "They sounded just like the radio," she remembers. So one afternoon, inthe winter of her sophomore year at Woodson, Loretta made her way to Eastern.She stood outside the rehearsal room and placed her ear to the door. "I wasscared because my cousin," an Eastern alumnus, "said you got to be on your P'sand Q's to be in the choir." A reference to Lundy's no-nonsense discipline andHimalayan demands.Loretta stepped through the door and asked if she could join. She'd have tocatch a bus and a train to make the trip across town. She might not be right ontime for practice. Was that okay?Yes, it was. Lundy installed Loretta in the alto section and also invited her tojoin the select choir -- the choir's varsity team. The choir immediately feltlike home, Loretta says. Over the summer, she decided to transfer to Eastern.Loretta's mother, Virginia Miller, was fine with her daughter's decision.Miller, a 37-year-old administrative assistant at Children's Hospital, says aslong as Loretta is doing well in school, she doesn't try to influence herdaughter's education. Virginia Miller graduated from Anacostia High School butdidn't consider college. She was already a mother by then.Loretta's older brother, Nate, is a 20-year-old sophomore at Virginia StateUniversity. The rest of the family -- Loretta, her mother, stepfather andtoddler sister -- live in Northeast Washington, on a block of modestsingle-family homes with bars in the windows and rosebushes in the front yards.Loretta's mother supports her daughter's ambition to become an engineer, thoughshe chuckles when she talks about it. Loretta is prone to changing her mind, shesays, "but I don't tell her that."Loretta picked up the engineering idea last year after joining Leaders ofTomorrow, a mentoring program sponsored by the National Black MBA Association.During one meeting, she spoke with a computer engineer and said to herself, Ican do that.Loretta doesn't have to look far to find the source of her ambitious nature: "Ithink it's me mainly . . . I see what I like to do, and that's what I do."Now a purple basket sits in front of Loretta. She made the basket by soakingyarn in glue and wrapping the yarn around a balloon. When the glue dried, shepopped the balloon as the yarn kept its shape. Voilà, a basket.Today the assignment is to cut an opening in the basket and fill it with thegreen plastic grass that Loretta bought this morning. Then she's to decorate itwith lacy white ribbon and, finally, place chocolates in the grass.Loretta didn't especially want to take floral culture, the kind of class theschool system vowed to eliminate at the beginning of the school year as part ofEastern's transformation. "Challenges in Daily Living" disappeared in the driveto inject more rigor into the curriculum; floral culture did not. Loretta saysit was the only elective available when she transferred. She knows the classisn't going to help her get into MIT. She recently applied to the university'sprestigious summer program for high school students that targets minorities. ButLoretta is pessimistic about getting in. Though her GPA is nearly perfect, shescored just 850 out of 1600 on the SAT. That puts her above the District averageand higher than most of her peers at Eastern. But last year the mean SAT scoreof students accepted into the MIT summer program was 1290.Loretta's high school classes haven't prepared her all that well for the SAT.Most classes at Eastern, Loretta complains, don't make you think. "There's a lotof memorization." Worksheets are a common teaching tool.Loretta makes an exception for Algebra II, which she finds challenging. One dayin class, Nathaniel Ogunniyi, the math teacher, writes on the chalkboard to showhis students how to find the inverse of a function. Most of the kids watchintently and scribble along, but a few talk loudly among themselves. Lorettalooks up impatiently from her notebook. "Can y'all be quiet. Mr. Ogunniyi tryin'to show us something."Loretta struggles against the mental dry rot, carrying James Baldwin's Go TellIt on the Mountain from class to class. She chose the classic story of a Harlemteenager's spiritual awakening for a book report for English. At first, Lorettafound Baldwin's prose difficult to follow. Now, almost finished, she's hooked.She's holding Baldwin when she walks into a dank basement classroom. This ischemistry. She looks at the chalkboard and says the questions have been up therefor two weeks. Lately, chemistry has been her least favorite class. The teacherhas been sick for several weeks, and the substitute, himself a graduate ofEastern High School, doesn't demand much. There's not even the pretend learningthat characterizes too many courses at Eastern: no word searches, no definitionscopied from a textbook glossary, no test-taking skills.Today the substitute hands back some tests covering material that Loretta saysshe was tested on earlier in the year. Loretta looks at her paper: One hundredpercent. Nothing else seems to be in the plan book. Loretta opens her algebrabook. Earlier in the day, Ogunniyi announced an upcoming test. If nothing else,chemistry class serves as a study hall.Doing little more than running her mouth, a girl at the back of the class sooncalls out: "These walls about to fall in on us" and utters a curse. The outburstperturbs the substitute, who is sitting at his desk watching a movie on aportable DVD player. He politely asks the girl not to curse. Not five secondslater, the f-word projects from his DVD player."You sitting there, and your DVD cursing," the girl says.A little later, the principal opens the door. With a drawn expression, Smithsurveys the lack of activity in the classroom. He leaves, returns to have a wordwith the substitute, then calls me into the hallway."What's going on in there?" he asks."Nothing," I say. "The teacher's watching a DVD. The kids are talking. Loretta'sdoing math."After sending me back into the classroom, Smith once again asks to speak withthe substitute. When the substitute returns to the classroom, he turns off theDVD player and asks the students to turn to Chapter 6 in their chemistry book.Loretta looks up from her algebra. "We just now did that chapter," she says.JESUS SAVE me,Sanctify me,Wash me in the cleansingBlood of the Lamb.It's gospel day for the choir, and a blast of faith reverberates through thethird-floor rehearsal room.The choir is up to six basses, though one of them is practically tone deaf, andanother one barely parts his lips when singing. The tenors are hovering at aboutnine. The uptick in male singers seemed to follow a pizza party where young menin the hallways were welcomed in for a slice. One of the pizza-party recruitsbriefly attended rehearsals. He soon left the choir, however, because his job atMcDonald's got in the way. The boy who was jeered at during the assembly hasn'tbeen around much.All of that is forgotten on gospel day. Most of these kids have been singinggospel in neighborhood churches since they could see over a pew. So come gospelday, it's as if the glass slipper suddenly fits. The choir doesn't always seemas comfortable with the rest of its repertoire, which ranges from Beethoven toEllington. One song is sung in Latin; even those in English require rigidposture and sharp vocal control.But gospel music means a homecoming. Lundy's arms and face dance as he conductsto music provided by a four-piece band. The joyous sound rolls through thecorridors of the school, attracting an impromptu audience. Students, teachersand custodians gather by the door to listen.The kids' vowels are long, loose and tweaked-out. Their explosive voices emitfrom somewhere deep and more ancient than themselves. As they sing, the choirsways like a bed of sea anemones in an inexorable ocean of rhythm.ONE AFTERNOON Lundy can't make it to rehearsal, so Joyce Garrett fills in."Let's learn a spiritual right quick," Garrett says to the students. She laysher hands on the keyboard and begins teaching. The basses in particular respondto her sharp directions.The students giggle at her range. She can sing, with equal facility, the part ofthe basses or the sopranos.But from within the soprano section, Garrett finds small, insidious lapses. Onesoprano sits mute; in 45 minutes she hasn't uttered a single note. Anotherstands up to get her purse and removes a case of lip gloss, which she applieswhile Garrett is speaking. The lip gloss is passed back to another girl. Afourth soprano mutters "shut up" when the section is exhorted to work harder,though only her immediate neighbors hear the insult.Such behavior may be common elsewhere at Eastern, but in this room, for JoyceGarrett, it's blasphemy. If excuses were accepted here -- and they're not --then Garrett and Lundy would have plenty of reasons to pardon lax performance.One of their singers, a 16-year-old African immigrant, is exhausted all thetime. She's desperately trying to earn her high school diploma before her visaexpires. She goes to night school 20 hours a week and is often doing homeworkuntil 2 a.m. Yet she never misses rehearsal.Then there's Michelle Wooten, a 17-year-old senior who wants to be a nurse. Shealso plans, within months, to be a mother. She has decided to keep the baby,though she and the father are no longer together. Michelle has already been toldthat she can't perform with the choir while she's pregnant, but her collegescholarship won't be affected. And that, she says, is what she cares about most.Garrett understands the daily challenges that many students in the choir face.But she accepts nothing less than their best effort, and right now, they're notgiving it. She steps from behind the piano, spreads her arms wide. Her chindrops to her chest. A hush falls across the room."If that's the way you're going to sing for me, I'm not coming" here anymore,she announces. Garrett's voice is calm, loving and unequivocal. She gathers herpurse and quietly exits the room. Rehearsal is done.CHRISTMASTIME, the choir's busy season. Two days ago, the students performed aspart of a larger concert at the National Building Museum with President Bush inattendance.A week earlier, they participated in the Kennedy Center Honors. Their dressingroom was just down the way from that of Garth Brooks. During a dress rehearsal,they spotted Dan Aykroyd and jostled one another to get a better look at LL CoolJ, who was standing onstage practicing a speech. You can't be like this, astagehand scolded them. In a few hours, you're being recorded for nationaltelevision.Today the choir is bouncing down the Beltway in a yellow school bus, on the wayto ExxonMobil's corporate offices in Fairfax County. The energy giant has hostedEastern's singers every holiday season since 1998. This is one of the choir'smore lucrative engagements. The choir pulls in $2,500 for a performance thatlasts under an hour.Patrick Dexter, community relations adviser at ExxonMobil, remembers the firsttime he heard the choir: "The room was packed, standing room only. They broughtdown the house."While an audience of engineers and secretaries gathers, Garrett takes themicrophone and gives a brief history of the choir. She describes it as a"vehicle for teaching a lot more than music." With a grin, she talks about howroutine it is to have all of the seniors go on to college.With that, the performance begins. Lundy plays piano. Garrett directs. Then theyswitch rolls. Senior Garselle Davis steps from the alto section toward themicrophone. She's singing a solo part in "Silent Night."The other seniors sometimes rib Garselle because she's so far behind in thecollege-application process. She's not even sure where she wants to apply.That's the kind of culture Garrett and Lundy have created: You're not cool ifyou're not running down a dream.But the audience only sees a girl with chipmunk cheeks and a radiant voice. Shemoves her hand across her body, diva-like. After she finishes, the audienceapplauds enthusiastically."Aren't they awesome?" exclaims a woman in a business suit.EASTERN HIGH SCHOOL is slowly burning. It's early spring, and Eastern has beenhit with four arsons in as many school days. Once again, the screech of a firealarm has evacuated the building. The fires usually occur around this time,during or just after lunch. The arsonist knows that burning even a few fistfulsof notebook paper will lead to evacuation of the school. From there, skippingout is a cinch.Right now there are only about 40 students waiting out front to get back inside.The rest have left, either in glee or exasperation. A bored-looking huddle offirefighters stands by; the small fires are often out by the time the trucksarrive.Loretta sits outside the school on a low brick wall. The sun shines in heralmond eyes when she looks up from her algebra book. It's hard to focus on math,though she views recent events with a touch of humor. "The school day is notcomplete until there's a fire," she says with a laugh.Timothy Elliot, a computer teacher, walks past. "This is a felony," he says."Whoever's doing this needs to be punished, really punished."Loretta smiles at Elliot, who keeps a list of SAT words on the chalkboard in hisclassroom."I can't remember what 'nuance' means," she says to Elliot. Loretta is planningto take the SATs at least once more. She's recently finished a private prepcourse and is hoping to enroll in another soon.Elliot takes his hands from his pockets, relieved by the shift in conversation."A nuance is a subtle detail," the teacher says."Oh, okay," Loretta says. She turns back to her math.Smith emerges from the building. He'd been inside with some firefighters,showing them the pitiful pile of ash that has caused so much disruption. Therehad been fires earlier in the year. But never this many in a row. At first, thefires were started in bathroom trash cans. Then Smith ordered the bathroomslocked. After that, students who needed to use a restroom had to track down ateacher or custodian with a key. Then the fires migrated to the hallway trashcans. So Principal Smith removed those. Now garbage collects on the floor fasterthan the custodians can sweep it up.Today for the first time, the arsonist has burned a locker. "What am I going todo?" Smith wonders. "Take out all the lockers?""I'm tired," he says. "This is totally ridiculous." Yet, he says, he isn'tconsidering returning to retirement. "Our children need help. They just don'trealize they need help."The next day, Smith stands before the student body in the gym. He's called anemergency assembly to address the arsons. "Good morning," he says into amicrophone. The students don't stop talking. "Good morning," he repeats fourmore times. No effect. He asks the teachers to help quiet the students. Some ofthe teachers help. Many do not. A few teachers are carrying on conversations oftheir own.Smith begins his speech anyway. "There is a big concern about the tone in thebuilding," he says. "You are teenagers, mostly African American teenagers. Theworld awaits you." Finally, if only for a moment, the whole room is quiet."Our job is to make you successful," Smith says. That cannot happen in anenvironment where students and teachers don't feel safe. "If you're coming tohigh school for nonsense, don't come to school." He is addressing that small,ruinous fraction: the clowns, the hall wanderers, the arsonist(s). "We'll findother arrangements for you." The crowd breaks into applause.But the rest of Smith's speech doesn't play as well. When he announces a"monetary reward" for catching the arsonist, there's no buzz from the students,and one teacher quietly chides her boss. "He should say 'money,' because thesestudents don't understand 'monetary.' "Smith talks about wanting Eastern "to regain the stature it once had." Adifferent teacher says to a nearby colleague: "But you've got to have the rightpopulation. These kids don't care." Smith mentions the school motto -- "ThePride of Capitol Hill" -- and there are outright scoffs from the audience."We need to start a new day," the principal concludes. Just then an 11th-gradeboy -- a sometime member of the choir -- begins clapping his hands like ametronome. He's not applauding. He's lobbing a hand grenade. The clap racesaround the gymnasium and momentarily takes over the room. A few students try tostart a stadium-style wave. It's a collective thumb in Smith's eye -- onecompounded by another fire that afternoon. This one empties the building just 20minutes before the end of the school day, so it probably isn't a ploy forditching class. Rather, the fire seems to be a message for Smith: You are notthe boss here.COFIELD WILLIAMS slides a tape into a VCR as a bus takes the choir to LincolnUniversity in Pennsylvania for a campus tour. It's a recording of the choir's25th-anniversary concert in 1997. "That is when the choir used to be good," saysa voice from the back of the bus."The choir still is good," Cofield says defensively. "We need to get sometenors, but the choir is still good."The tenor section imploded earlier in the year. One boy quit because he wantedto play hockey. Another -- beautiful voice, stellar stage presence -- was kickedout of the choir because he was simply too disrespectful to Lundy. Another tenorwound up in the hospital with chest pains and stopped coming to school for awhile.Joshua Mitchell, a standout who's aiming for the Juilliard School in New York,has become the choir's lone tenor. For that reason, Lundy and Garrett havedecided to cancel the choir's annual spring concert. With only one tenor, it'sbetter not to perform at all than to perform below standard."It was kind of a disappointment," Cofield acknowledges. "But I understand thesituation."Cofield came to Eastern three years ago specifically to sing. Some guys atschool might mock the choir's performers, but that doesn't bother Cofield. Aspresident of the choir, he's the top dog in this domain. Cofield often hasslesother singers about attendance, permission slips and behavior. He can also bethe choir's comedian in chief. During one bus ride, he grabbed the microphoneand delivered a mock sermon, singing out holy hosannas between fits of laughter.He says he wants to be a teacher. He might consider Lincoln, the oldesthistorically black college in the country and alma mater to Langston Hughes andThurgood Marshall. Lincoln often recruits Eastern students for its concertchoir.The rolling hills around Lincoln University are spiked with grain silos. Thestreets of Washington seem to be a million miles away. The avenues of Cambridge,Mass., seem even farther."I didn't get into MIT," Loretta says, referring to her summer programapplication. She's walking at the tail end of the tour around Lincoln's small,pastoral campus. The voice of the tour guide, a choir alumnus, is lost in thehowl of a cold wind. "I know it was my SATs," she says. The rejection letterconsoled her by saying there were only 40 slots and more than 700 applications."I'm not hurt. There will be other opportunities."Loretta looks around. "I don't think I'm going to apply here." Earlier in theyear, she'd been considering historically black colleges and universities.Recently, though, she says she's not much interested in them. She's gone toblack schools all her life. She says she's ready for some diversity. She'sthinking about the University of Michigan. It has an engineering school. Hermother and stepfather have offered to drive her up for a visit this summer.A little later, Cofield, along with fellow seniors Onteia Cohen and LaTaviaConner, stand in the office of William Garcia, the director of the concert choirat Lincoln. He says that the Eastern High School Choir has been "impeccablytrained." Garcia listens to each of the students sing individually. He exercisestheir voices, playing scales."You people have unspeakable talent," Garcia says at the end of the auditions.LORETTA SLIDES THROUGH the alto section to the microphone at center stage andlaunches into her brief solo in "From Where I Stand," a patriotic anthem. Hervoice has matured over the past nine months, but she's not happy with herperformance tonight at Bethesda Baptist Church in Northeast Washington."Was I flat?" Loretta asks backstage at intermission. Her shoulders slump withdismay. None of the other choir members says anything. She already knows theanswer."I was flat," she declares with embarrassment. Recently she was chosen as thepresident of next year's choir, and she knows that the other singers are lookingto her as an example. At least you knew the words, someone comforts her.Okay, we're back on, Patrick Lundy calls out in a stage whisper. Loretta and theother singers, dressed in blue-and-red concert robes, noiselessly fall intoformation and return to the sparsely filled sanctuary.This will be one of their final performances of the spring. The school year isalmost over, and so are Loretta's dreams of becoming an engineer. Now she seesherself majoring in communications and emerging from college as a motivationalspeaker. Last marking period, she got a B in Algebra II: "I'm good at math. Ilike it, but I don't think that's in my heart." She also got a B in floralculture. She admits this with a guilty smile and can only shrug her shoulders.Most of the seniors are heading off to college. Cofield Williams has decided toattend Delaware State University, though he's still awaiting his financial aidpackage. Onteia Cohen is going to Morgan State University on "basically a fullride." Garselle Davis plans to study at Bennett College, mainly because that'sthe alma mater of Joyce Garrett. Michelle Wooten wants to attend the Universityof the District of Columbia part time while her infant son, DeAndre, is at daycare.But not all of the choir's graduates are moving on to higher education. Onesenior, an alto, has no plans for next year. She says she's going to a tradeschool, though she doesn't know where, or what she's going to study. And thechoir itself still faces an uncertain future. Fundraising this year did not gowell. After it disburses its scholarships, the Eastern Choral Society may face adeficit.Garrett has come up with a new plan to inject life into the choir. With theschool system's blessing, Eastern plans to launch a performing arts academy nextfall. It will feature an expanded curriculum -- music theory, sight reading,vocal music -- to students across the city. Garrett and Lundy are hoping theschool will attract a wave of new talent, though it's not clear if they willhave the resources to make the academy a success.Juan Baughn, the District's assistant superintendent for high schools, initiallytells me he thinks the new program can be pulled off with Eastern's existingteachers. The current number of music teachers at Eastern: one. Apprised ofthis, Baughn concedes that another music teacher may have to be hired. "I can'tgive details at this time," he says. "We may have to phase this in over twoyears."At Bethesda Baptist, Lundy stands before the congregation. The second half ofthe performance is going to be all gospel. "We're not in an academic setting,"he calls out. "We're gonna have some church in here tonight, show you what thesekids can do."He turns to face his singers. With one quick gesture, he releases sweet thunderfrom 47 young mouths. Half a dozen choir alumni, home from college, are singingwith their former schoolmates. The sound is ferocious, lifting the smallaudience to its feet. Loretta's face, like those around her, is at once joyous,pained and illuminated with a faith in limitless possibility. When the studentssmile, it's not because Lundy told them to -- though he did -- but because theyare singing. There is nothing they'd rather be doing.Tyler Currie is a frequent contributor to the Magazine. He, along with JoyceGarrett and Patrick Lundy, will be fielding questions and comments about thisarticle Monday at 1 p.m. on www.washingtonpost.com/liveonline. To hear an audioclip of the Eastern High School Choir singing, go to www.washingtonpost.com/education.