Shortly after midnight Tuesday in his bedroom at Ramstein Air Base in Germany,Randy Phillips set up his Web camera, dialed his cellphone and called his fatherin Alabama."Can I tell you something?" Phillips, 21, asked, with the camera rolling. "Willyou love me, serious? Like, you've always loved me, as long as I live?""Yes," his father said.His voice dropping, Phillips told him: "Dad, I'm gay.""Yikes," his father replied."I still love you, and I will always love you, and I will always be proud ofyou," his father said later.This is what the end of the military's "don't ask, don't tell" policy brought -hundreds, if not thousands, of quiet, personal exchanges with family members,friends, and supportive colleagues who had long suspected they knew. Some gayservice members took to podiums on Capitol Hill or attended parties and "comingout" ceremonies.But several issues remain unresolved, including the granting of equal benefitsto same-sex partners and how gay soldiers will be accepted in their units. ThePentagon, which appeared eager to declare victory and move on, said it wouldwork within current federal law to address lingering concerns.Tuesday, though, was about relief and recognition.In a Facebook posting, Army Lt. Col. Michael D. Jason summed it up for many inthe military." 'Don't Ask Don't Tell' repealed today," he wrote. "The American citizen hasasked some of us to fight for them. We volunteered. Now, as proclaimed by law,stay out of my Soldiers' bedrooms. About time."For Air Force Staff Sgt. John Tegeler, the end of the ban on gays in uniformmeant he could walk into his office at Ramstein beaming on Tuesday morning."One of my co-workers asked why I had such a big smile on my face," he said."Then she said, 'Oh, yes, I know why.' "But the day was not without worrying reminders that homophobic attitudes in themilitary are unlikely to vanish.Tegeler said straight troops still cracked jokes he found somewhat offensive,apparently not realizing that a gay airman was present."There are a lot of people who cannot adapt and overcome change," said Tegeler,27. "But I laughed it off. I have a thick skin."In Washington, Marine Capt. Sarah Pezzat's voice cracked as she spoke to a roomfull of reporters and supportive senators on Capitol Hill."I'm 31 years old, I'm a United States Marine, and I'm a lesbian," she said,fighting back tears.Although she had disagreed with the military on its ban on gays, "I couldn'tcompletely leave it." And now as she prepares to deploy overseas, she said, "Idon't have to shove my family back into the closet."Sen. Susan Collins (Maine), a key Republican backer of repeal efforts, joinedPezzat to read from a postcard she received in June from a soldier serving inAfghanistan."Thank you for your courage to vote in favor of repeal as a Republican," thepostcard said. "I will repay your courage with continued professionalism."Collins lamented that she may never know who sent her the postcard, signedsimply "An Army Soldier."But, Collins noted, "today he can sign his name, and that makes all thedifference."Despite Tuesday's milestone, there is growing concern among gay troops thattheir partners are still denied access to the housing and health benefitsprovided to heterosexual military spouses. Activists are also shifting focus tothe unknown number of transgender troops serving in uniform without formalrecognition. And some troops feared that repealing the gay ban might createtensions for tightknit units upset that some members are still facinginequities."I think it's going to bother commanders, and troops who see their friends beingtreated differently," said Josh Seefried, who for several years used thepseudonym "J.D. Smith" in leading OutServe, an underground network of gaytroops.At the Pentagon, Defense Secretary Leon E. Panetta assured skeptics that themilitary would have "zero tolerance with regards to harassment" and would relyon current standards of discipline to handle adverse situations.As for further changes that would benefit same-sex couples, Adm. Mike Mullen,chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, noted that the Defense of Marriage Actprohibits the military from equalizing benefits for them. "We follow the lawhere," Mullen said. "We're going to follow that law as long as it exists."Critics seized on the concerns raised by troops as further proof that thePentagon rushed to end the gay ban without proper study. Elaine Donnelly, avocal opponent of allowing gays in uniform, said Tuesday's change "is beingimposed on the armed forces to deliver on President Barack Obama's politicalpromises" to gay rights organizations.The push to end the ban "was fueled by sophistry, administration-coordinateddeception" and fake research compiled by gay activists, Donnelly chargedTuesday.In Germany, Tegeler and his colleagues weren't focused on critics. Theycelebrated the ban's end with a dinner at a Mexican restaurant near their base.They heard from Air Force Master Sgt. Kristopher Kobernus, who had recentlyreturned from a deployment to Afghanistan.He told those present at the Cantina Mexican Restaurant in Kaiserslautern of thetime he and a few friends stationed in Seoul were arrested for being out aftercurfew. They happened to have been at a gay bar, which triggered aninvestigation."Even though I knew there was nothing wrong with being there, I also knew theynow had an idea about my sexuality," he said. "I was scared." He wasn'tdischarged, but one of the friends at the bar that night was, in part as aresult of the arrest, he said.Kobernus, 37, said gay soldiers should celebrate but also brace themselves for along road ahead."When you go to work tomorrow, the next phase of our battle will officiallybegin," he said. "If you decide to come out, the battle for respect amongst yourco-workers. The battle for a workplace free from harassment, and a battle toprove that all the stereotypes that have labeled our community are just that."ed.okeefe@washingtonpost.comCorrespondent Ernesto Londoño in Kabul and staff writers Elizabeth Flock, GregJaffe and Craig Whitlock in Washington contributed to this report.