Since I bought my first house three months ago, a 59-year-old fixer-upper in theBrookland neighborhood of Washington, I've had to work with a stream ofcontractors.None of them women.As a feminist, I often go out of my way to give my business to other women,especially in nontraditional fields. No matter how hard I looked, however, Iwouldn't have been able to find many female contractors.Not when only 2.4 percent of the 6.3 million people working in the constructiontrades in 2001 in the United States were women, according to the Bureau of LaborStatistics. With percentages that low, the only woman likely to be working on myhouse is me.These occupations, which include plumbers, carpenters, electricians, roofers,general contractors and other skilled crafts, pay pretty well. For example, themedian pay for an electrician in the Washington. metro area is $ 20.69 an hour.Electricians' helpers average $ 12.03 an hour -- certainly better than the $10.29 parceled out to nurses' aides, a field composed 90 percent of women.The economic incentive to pursue this work is obviously there, so why aren'tmore women picking up a voltage tester?Patricia Jones, executive director of Nontraditional Employment for Women (NEW)in New York, says women who want to go into the trades must overcome severallayers of prejudice, starting when they are girls.They also face a tough work environment. Sexual harassment is still a problem onjob sites, she said, but the main obstacle is that you have to reestablishyourself every time you show up at a new work site. This is especially stressfulwhen you're the only woman at the job. You'll be lucky if they even have aseparate Porta-John for you.Gayle Nelson-Blomquist, director of development for Chicago Women in Trades,said the biggest problems are lack of knowledge about the fields, womenunderestimating their own skills and an absence of role models. Even if youoffer vocational training to girls, if they don't see anyone who looks like themdoing it, they aren't likely to picture themselves doing it either, she said.Overcoming women's lack of knowledge about the building trades and bias againstwomen in the field isn't easy, but efforts are being made. The Labor Departmentworks with several community organizations and labor unions to increase women'sparticipation in the skilled trades.NEW, for example, which receives a Labor Department grant, provides basicconstruction education to the women eligible for their programs. Theorganization's 12-week, full-time "Blue Collar Prep" program, for example,provides hands-on classes in carpentry, basic electricity, plumbing andblueprint reading. It also trains women in safety practices, catches them up onbasic math and makes sure they meet the physical-fitness requirements of thetrade.Once women have basic skills, NEW helps them find formal apprentice programswith local unions. Apprenticeships are the tickets to good jobs.A typical apprenticeship for an electrician, for example, lasts four to fiveyears. An apprentice can expect at least 144 hours of classroom time each year,and 8,000 hours of on-the-job training over the course of the training,according to the Bureau of Labor Statistics. In the classroom, apprentices learnblueprint reading, electrical theory, electronics, electrical code requirementsand safety practices. On the job, under the supervision of experiencedelectricians, apprentices must prove that they've mastered the skills. When allthis training is complete, apprentices take licensing exams, which certify themto work in a particular state. In Maryland, for example, to qualify to take the"master electrician" exam you must have seven years of experience working undera master electrician.The tradeswoman organizations aim to increase the number of women withhigh-level skills, in the hopes that they will sponsor more female apprentices.NEW's Jones said her group wants to build "a critical mass of women, so we canlook out for each other."Maybe then I can get some help with my handywoman's special.E-mail Mary Ellen Slayter at slayterme@washpost.com. You can also join her forCareer Track Live, an online forum to discuss career issues affecting youngworkers, tomorrow at 11 a.m. at www.washingtonpost.com.