Morning brings the invitations. The casual ones. So routine are they that shehardly thinks about them, just waves them away like gnats. Today, for example, aboy came up to her in the hall and asked, "When are you going to let me hitthat?" "That means, like, intercourse," the girl explains, with a sort ofgum-popping matter-of-factness. She is 13.She is an eighth-grader, fresh-faced, clear-eyed, with light brown hair andfluffy bangs and plucked eyebrows, her voice sweet and straightforward as, onemorning in an unused classroom, she sits relating some of the other things guyssay to her in the halls of her Montgomery County middle school, nestled indeveloped farmland in the central part of the county."They say, 'What's up with the dome?' " the girl continues, explaining that thisis an invitation to perform oral sex, as is the more familiar: "When are yougoing to give me head?" She tells them never. She laughs. Whatever it takes toput them off. She has not done much more than kiss, though she and her femalefriends talk about sex a lot, especially oral sex. "They're like, 'It's not thatbad once you do it. But it's scary the first time.' I guess they're nervous thatthey won't do it right. They said they didn't have any pleasure in it. They didit to make the boys happy, I guess."She thinks that someday she will do it.She thinks that it will be gross.The serious invitations come in the afternoon, after school, from two boys sheknows well, boys who live within walking distance of her house, boys who callher up, or else she calls them, and they come over when her parents are still atwork and the only other person in her house is a sibling. When the boys arrivethey often say something like what one of them said just the other day: "Let'sgo to your room. You can give me some head and then we'll go downstairs." Towhich she replied: "No! You're nasty!"It is a little complicated to explain who the two boys are. One of them -- let'scall him Boy A -- used to be her boyfriend and is now just her friend. The twoof them talk a lot -- they're really close, they know each other's life story,he has told her everything about himself and his past, though she's not sure shebelieves all of it (how much past can an eighth-grader have?), and they've hadconversations about oral sex. For example, the one in which she said to him, "IfI do it to you and do it wrong, just tell me what I'm doing wrong so I can fixit."The invitations also come from Boy B. One day, for example, back when she wasgoing out with Boy A, she and Boy B were talking on the phone in the afternoon,and she invited the two of them over, and Boy B "was, like, 'Are you going togive him head?' And I was, like, 'No.' And then he asked about himself -- hewas, like, 'What about me?' And I was, like, 'No.' I was, like, 'Heck no!' andhe was, like, 'Why?' And I was, like, 'Because I don't like you,' and he was,like, 'So? You can still do it!' ""They always ask," she says. "Even if you say no 700 times, they'll always askyou."What if the boys were to suddenly leave her alone and stop asking? "I wouldthink they didn't like me or something," she says, "or that the other girls areprettier or, like, better than me."What if she gives in? Just goes ahead and gets it over with? She has thoughtabout this. For example, she knows that if she did it with Boy A, Boy A wouldtell Boy B, and likewise, if she did it with Boy B, Boy B would tell Boy A. Sopeople would know. She doesn't think it would affect her reputation; you onlyget a bad reputation if you have sex with every boy who asks you. But the onething she knows is that if she did it, even once, and people found out, her daywould be one endless stream of requests. "They would ask me, and ask me, evenmore than they do now."In other words, this girl -- who asked, for obvious reasons, that her name notbe used in this article -- is making complex moral calculations all day long,measuring popularity, fending off unwanted commentary, admitting to curiosity,assessing risk. At least until her mother gets home. "How was your day atschool?" she usually asks.Statistically, you might think that this is a relatively good -- or at least, arelatively safe -- time to be coming of age, sexually, in America. The importantnumbers -- as reported by the Alan Gutt-macher Institute, the National Centerfor Health Statistics and other research groups -- show:Teen pregnancy rate, down 16 percent between 1991 and 1996.Teen abortion rate, down 22 percent in the same period.Teen birth rate, down 18 percent.Contraceptive use way up since 1979, when fewer than half of adolescents usedcontraception the first time they had sex. Now, more than 70 percent do, thoughless than half say they use contraception every time.All of these trends, found in every state, every region of the country.A relatively safe time to be coming of age.Except: What should we think about a brown-haired girl in a classroom strugglingto think of some boys who don't ask her for sex? "The only friends I know whodon't do it," she says "are, like, friends I've known since -- well, two orthree friends don't do it."What should we think about similar conversations with other young teens aroundMontgomery County; an eighth-grader, for example, who kept a diary at my requestdocumenting the stream of unwanted sexual come-ons she fends off every day? Oneentry, written in careful cursive in light blue ink on notebook paper, read: "Iwas bending down, getting something from out of my locker when a boy just cameup behind and was trying to hump me." Another: "I was at my locker picking up mybooks from off the floor and a boy stands in front of me and puts his [crotch]in my face and says, 'Oh yes, you're the best.' "What should we think about five Bethesda eighth-graders standing at a picnic,saying that each of them knows a classmate who has had sex? "My mom doesn't knowthis goes on," says one. "She thinks we don't even kiss. I don't tell my parentsanything. I don't want to tell them. They wouldn't understand. They'd think Iwas retarded."What should we think about statistics showing that, for all the recent declinein teen pregnancies and abortions, there is nevertheless more sexual activity atevery stage of adolescence now than there was 30 years ago? About the fact that,over the same time period, the average age of first sexual intercourse hasdropped by a full year (from 18 to 17 for girls, from 17 to 16 for boys)? Aboutresearch showing that one-fifth of all 15-year-olds have had sex at least once?What should we think about the fact that -- even as the overall percentage ofsexually active teens has declined slightlyduring the past couple of years -- for girls under 15 it has continued toincrease?"Our culture is to a large extent experimenting with eroticizing the child,"says David Murray, an anthropologist and research director at the StatisticalAssessment Service, a think tank in Washington. Look, Murray suggests, at thecult of Britney Spears, or the continued newsstand appeal of the murdered6-year-old JonBenet Ramsey. What's going on, Murray says, is not a healthyexpression of our culture's sensuality through a fond depiction of the femaleform. It's not some hip literary Lolita thing, not a fundamentally harmlessAlice in Wonderland-type doting uncle thing. It's not a Maurice Chevalierlove-those-bows-and-ruffles thing. It's not innocent. It's not affectionate.It's base. It's weird. It's commerce."It's the commodification of the eroticization of the child," Murray adds. "Wecelebrate it."I've long wondered about this. That is, I've wondered what it must be like, forgirls, and for boys, too, to be coming of age in an era shaped by both the '60ssexual revolution and the '80s AIDS onslaught; coming of age in the time of"Dawson's Creek" and "Sex in the City"; a time of HIV and Eminem; a time whenLorena and John Bobbitt and Monica Lewinsky and Bill Clinton have done more thananybody else to insinuate terms like "penis" and "oral sex" into familynewspapers like this one. A time when the media -- all media, even mainstreammedia -- are more sexualized than they've ever been, and yet, at the same time,the consequences of sex are depicted so grimly, by cultural conservatives andliberals alike. What does it feel like -- how does a kid respond -- when themessages are so mixed and so insistent?Sex is great!Sex can be fatal!"What do you worry more about: sex on television or violence on television?" Iasked a man at a party about four years ago. Like most parents at most parties,we were eating buffet food and talking about our kids. The father of three sons,he replied that violence was what he worried about; his sons liked violent TV,they liked action movies and video games, and all of this, he felt, hadcoarsened his boys' character. Sex on the screen was not something he'd givenmuch thought to.I felt precisely the opposite.Twenty-five years ago, as an eighth-grader myself, I can recall being exposed tovery little sexual imagery, aside from the relatively subtle innuendo of rocklyrics. Apart from that, I remember few explicit sexual references in the broadpopular culture, and even those weren't really popular culture per se. Forexample, I remember sometime in my early teens when my parents took me to"Walkabout," an Australian movie where there is a brief shot of full frontalfemale nudity, or the time my friend Kate and I, for reasons that still eludeme, went to see Fellini's "Amarcord," of which I remember (of course) only theboy's face smashed in the fat woman's breasts. Instances like these were soinfrequent, and so memorable, that I can count them on my fingers. The rest ofthe time, I was watching Arte Johnson fall off a tricycle on "Laugh-In."Now, it seems as if each new day pushes the edge of the envelope further. Justlast week I was sitting on the couch with my daughter, now 4 1/2, and the TV wastuned to my favorite show, the British series "Absolutely Fabulous," on ComedyCentral. During one break there was a teaser for a routine that would be airedlater that night. In it, a comic was saying: "Bush-Gore, Bush-Gore: What kind ofa presidential contest is that? It sounds more like a snuff movie!" Fortunatelythe reference went over my daughter's head, but what, I couldn't help butwonder, if it hadn't? I didn't learn what a snuff movie was until I was 30, andonly then because I'm married to the son of a cop, who used to confiscate them.What if my daughter had been slightly older -- 6, say -- and asked me what asnuff movie is? What if my son, now 2, was also sitting there? What would I tellthem?For some parents, of course, the solution is to not get cable: That way yourkids can't watch Comedy Central, or MTV movies like "Jailbait," or Dr. Drew'ssex advice show, though they still could watch "Friends," or "Buffy," or "FreshPrince," or many of the other TV shows showing relationship-obsessed youngpeople. Or they might go on the Internet, as I did recently, and type in thesearch terms "teen" and "sex," whereupon they will be rewarded with a zillionlinks to pornography sites such as WORLD TEEN SEX ("20 Tiny Lolitas!") andSUKEBE 500 FROM JAPAN ("cute school girl from Tokyo") and TEEN SEX, HARDCORE SEXAND FREE PORN WITH TEEN ("amateurs and young girls having sex") and SEXY TEENGIRL ("Sex pictures gallery! Cleanest looking teens!").There are filtering devices, of course, but there is also ordinary old FM radio,which I was listening to recently while driv-ing with my kids. Between musicsegments, a commercial came on that went: "Sex with a regular condom is likethis" -- noise of a dripping faucet -- "but sex with our supercharged ribbedcondom is like THIS" -- noise of a roaring waterfall!!I'm not saying that all of this is bad. Temperamentally I'm always inclined tothink that information is a good thing; that sexual awareness is a good thing.In particular, it has always bothered me that our culture and literature containso few explorations of adolescent female desire; that there's no girl's versionof Portnoy's Complaint. I know many women who regard their own sexual initiationas a fun and hilarious time, a time they will remember fondly when they are oldwomen in rocking chairs thinking back on their lives.But how -- in this era -- to regulate the flow of information? What to do whenthere is no childhood terrain that's sacrosanct? The other day I was at my localplayground, and looked down to see that my daughter had unknowingly dug up aused condom in a scoopful of sand. What did she think when she saw grown-upsdashing about, trying to find a napkin or paper towel to pick up the condom, andsurreptitiously assessing -- even as we knew we were overreacting -- thestatistical odds of HIV contamination?"How many of you are sexually active?" Aury Coronado asked a group of girls whowere slouched in chairs, gazing out the window, contemplating their nails and,in one case, it appeared, napping. Aury is a nurse and a health educator, and onthis particular day she was in a comfortable room at a Kensington medicaloffice, conducting an after-school contraception class for a group of MontgomeryCounty eighth-graders. There were nine girls in the room, and none raised ahand. The counselor who'd brought them from their school looked amused. She knewthey were just leery about unburdening themselves to a stranger. "How many ofyou are sexually active?" the counselor repeated."Do you mean, do we or have we?" one of the girls said."Have you," she said, whereupon the girls snapped to, and six of them raisedtheir hands.I learned later that this group of eighth-graders was somewhat unusual; the termfor them once upon a time might have been fast girls, though I would discoverthat there was a great deal of heterogeneity in the group; some of the girlsstrongly disapproved of what others were doing. A better word now might be "atrisk," which is to say that many of them were girls from low-income,single-parent or otherwise disadvantaged households. But even given their veryspecific demographic, it struck me as remarkable that six out of nine of themhad had sex, at 13 or 14. What also struck me, as I listened to Aury's veryuseful discourse with them, was the mix of experience and ignorance theydisplayed. Their first question, which they'd written down in advance, was whatis a female condom, and when Aury told them that the female condom isn't veryappealing to look at, that it sort of hangs outside the woman's body, there wasa smirk and one of the girls said knowingly, "It doesn't look very appetizing!"On one level they were very worldly and on another they were full ofsuperstition and childlike curiosity. When they'd come to trust Aury they askedher all sorts of questions, like whether it is true that you can get pubic licein your armpits and eyebrows, and whether you can get pregnant from oral sex,and whether plastic wrap is an acceptable means of protection from sexuallytransmitted diseases, and whether one ought to douche, and if so whether oneought to douche with vinegar (no, no, no, no, and no). Another thing they wantedto know was whether people over 50 are allowed to have sex, and if so, whetherthis is really a good idea."I thought there was, like, an age to stop," one of them said. " 'Cuz, you know,some of them get home and have heart attacks." When Aury told the group thateven people in nursing homes have sex, the girls fell silent with shock.Afterward, I kept thinking about this session, about what these young girls knewand didn't know and had done and were doing. Were they exceptions? In the levelof their experience, probably. Clearly there are children who spend most ofmiddle school thinking about sports, and friends, and music, and, I don't know,the cafeteria menu. But there are lots and lots of middle-schoolers whoseexperience of life, and sex, falls somewhere between inactivity and immersion.Exactly where is something that people in the field find it difficult to agreeon: Little research has been done on teenagers under 15, partly because for along time, researchers didn't think this age group was relevant to socialproblems like teen pregnancy and sexually transmitted diseases, and also becauseit wasn't considered seemly to ask.In particular, there is controversy over whether it's true -- as has beenreported -- that there is a lot more oral sex now among middle-schoolers. Thereare no statistics on this yet, but based on experience and anecdote, manyfront-liners in the field are convinced that this is true. "When I was growingup, you didn't hear a lot about oral sex, especially in middle school," saysKrystal Holland-McKinney, a sexuality counselor who works extensively with kidsin Maryland, the District and Virginia. "Now it's happening in middle school andit's happening cross-culturally."In turn, people like Michael Resnick, director of the National Teen PregnancyPrevention Research Center, say, "This is nothing new." Resnick isn't debatingwhether teenagers are having oral sex; he's simply arguing that teenagers havebeen having oral sex for quite some time, that they began well before the greatmedia pile-on that began with President Clinton's indiscretions. Studies done inthe '80s, for example, showed that teenagers were having oral sex back then.These, however, were high school kids, and the practice, Resnick suspects, mayhave spread more recently to the younger set. Too, Resnick acknowledges that anyincrease in oral sex could be consistent with the drop in teen abortion andpregnancy; that all of these trends, rather than being contradictory, could bepart of the same adaptive behavior."In one respect it's probably part of the bigger picture that a growing numberof kids in the United States are getting it. They're understanding more aboutpregnancy prevention and about risk," Resnick says.But the loose term "oral sex" is itself, I think, imprecise. Among the teenagersI talked to, there was widespread agreement that what oral sex consisted of, inmiddle school, was girls performing oral sex on boys. "I guess boys think itwould be nasty" to perform oral sex on a girl, conjectured one 13-year-old girl."It's different. It's just -- the body parts -- it's something different," saidone 13-year-old boy, looking a little bit horrified.Equally dispiriting, I think, is the striking research, done by a Washingtonresearch group called Child Trends, that quantifies the increase in sexualintercourse among girls 13 and 14. "Almost one-fifth of female teens (19percent) in 1995 reported that they had had sex before age 15, compared withonly 11 percent in 1988," noted a recent Child Trends research brief, addingthat males did not show a similar increase. ("Sex" is used here to meanintercourse, and does not include oral sex.) For girls at this age, some of theconsequences are obvious: increased risk of pregnancy and sexually transmitteddisease, because the younger someone starts, the more partners she's likely tohave. Sex at this age is also less likely to be consensual and more likely to becoercive; though pressure to have sex often comes from boys in their own agegroup, it also frequently comes from older boys, and many young girls who dohave sex do so with boys who are several years older. According to one study, 24percent of girls who had sex at age 14 or under reported that it was"nonvoluntary" -- basically, rape or molestation.Other young girls may consent, but only as a result of pressure: "I was justtrying to please him," said one 11th-grader I talked to who had had sex for thefirst time in middle school."I regret the age I was when I lost my virginity," said another, who'd had sexwith an older guy the summer after eighth grade; when she got to high school,she said, still embarrassed, "everybody knew."In other words, it would be naive to think that increased sexual activity byyoung girls is part of some post-feminist equal opportunity movement. I sat inon one sex-ed class where a group of high school girls could not identify thefemale organ that is "the center of sexual excitement and pleasure" and anotherwhere a group of eighth-grade girls all agreed that it was normal for boys tomasturbate, but not for girls. In three months of reporting, I heard very fewgirls make any bold expression of sensuality, apart from one who, during adiscussion of risky behavior, timidly expressed the idea that "hugging feels --mmmmmmm!" whereupon she was roundly chastised by her group. One of herclassmates pointed out that even hugging can be risky if the boy gets ambitious:"There are some people that be feeling on you when they're hugging!"Mostly, what I saw was girls being pressured to experiment, in some cases girlscurious to experiment, and, invariably, girls condemned when they did. There isstill a strong double standard, especially in this age group, that reduces thelikelihood that sex, for a girl, is going to feel like an empowered act. Even ifshe feels empowered doing it, she's unlikely to feel that way afterward, whenword gets around."If a guy's having sex it's like, oh, who cares," said one eighth-grade girl."But if a girl is, it's like, oh, she's a slut, she's a 'ho, she's nasty.""Nasty" was a word I heard a lot. So was "dirty" -- usually used to describegirls who were sexually active or who were suspected of sexual activity, andoccasionally used as a way of labeling the boys who pressed girls. "Dirty," ofcourse, has always had a sexual connotation -- "dirty old man" being the obviousexample -- but lately it has acquired a rawer, more literal meaning.Fundamentally, these days, "dirty" means a girl who is suspected of beingdiseased; likewise, "clean" is a word I heard a lot applied to girls (and,occasionally, boys) who are not having sex and are therefore deemed to be, well,clean.It made me wonder whether there might be some collateral damage from the war onAIDS and other sexually transmitted diseases; whether heightened awareness ofdisease -- one of the great differences between the sexual climate of the '70sand that of today -- might have had some unintended consequences. "We have had apublic health/public relations strategy in this country for some time thatemphasized not only an erroneously high impression of risk, but that furthersuggested the universality of risk to all sectors of the population, regardlessof their circumstance or specific sexual behaviors," says anthropologist DavidMurray, pointing out that in this country the risk of heterosexual transmissionof AIDS -- for example -- has sometimes been greatly exaggerated."This emphasis has had several very deleterious consequences, not least beingthe near-hysteria that has sometimes been occasioned in sex education settings."I wondered whether, as a result, some kids might be overestimating the risk ofinfection. And whether they were using the information as a way of labelingothers, of casting aspersions and besmirching reputations in a way that hurtsgirls (as matters of sexual reputation usually do) more than boys. I wondered,too, whether our new risk-awareness may be leading boys, particularly olderones, to hit on eighth-graders: Could it be that they think a good way ofpracticing safe sex is to practice sex on a girl who hasn't had it before?Which is not to say that girls aren't disease-conscious, too. They are. Indeed,it's difficult, I think, to exaggerate the impact that images of disease havehad on the mind of any adolescent: To a teenager, the notion of childbearing mayseem remote, but the possibility of being, like, gross and smelly andcontaminated is easy to comprehend. One day I sat in a sex-ed session where thecounselor asked a group of eighth-grade girls to identify the sexuallytransmitted diseases they knew about; there was hardly one they hadn't heard of."Gonorrhea!" they shouted."Herpes!""AIDS!""Shlamidia or something!""No, chlamydia!"Though the group was already well-versed, the counselor proceeded to show flipcharts of every so-called social disease imaginable: detailed medical drawingsof diseased genitalia, rendered with careful attention to ethnic diversity. Whatwas really striking was that, with each new condition, some girl in the groupwould become convinced that she had it.When conversation turned to pubic lice, for example, the counselor told themthat it's possible to get lice from toilets, and bedding, and even the clothingof other people. Which was all the encouragement the group needed. "There's thisgirl who used to go to school here," one of the group said, alarmed. "I know nowthat this girl had crabs. I would let her borrow my clothes and I slept in herbed . . . Is there any way . . . I mean, whenever I got my clothes back I washedthem, like, 10 times, but . . . Ooooh! I'm going to the doctor tomorrow!"Here the girls were taking this information, and their main worry was not onlythat they'd caught something but they'd caught something from another female.Occasionally, girls I talked to expressed fear of catching a disease from a boy,but for the most part girls didn't seem to evaluate boys as possible diseasevectors. Sexually active boys were "pretty boys" or "players," but they weren'tgenerally regarded as infectious.In contrast, when I talked to boys, I found that they, too, worried aboutdisease, but seemed to worry about it mostly in terms of girls who might bedisease carriers.One day I was sitting in the food court at Wheaton Plaza talking to a group ofeighth-graders, among them a boy who explained why he chose not to have sex withgirls who offered. It wasn't so much a fear of getting a girl pregnant -- thoughthat did cross his mind -- as fear of an early death brought on by ill-advisedcontact with a sexually experienced female like, say, any of the more forward13-year-olds in his class."There are so many diseases people are dying of these days," said the boy,shuddering. "HIV, the AIDS disease, herpes." No matter that people are not, infact, dying of herpes. This boy was convinced that danger lay everywhere aroundhim; that evil sirens beckoned; that, like Odysseus, he'd better lash himself tothe mast and sail on by them. Which is why, he said, when certain girls came upto him, or wrote him notes, offering, as some girls do, to perform this or thatservice, he turned them down. "If they're coming up to you, they must have beenused, and they're dirty. I wouldn't do it with them. Not with a nasty, dirtygirl."Another day I had a long conversation with one couple, an eighth-grade boy andgirl, both children of Salvadoran immigrants, who were notable in their peergroup for the fact that they were going steady but not having sex. The girl,whose mother and aunt both have a powerful influence on her, is a determinedvirgin and the moral compass of the duo; the boy has had sex once, in the sixthgrade, with a sixth-grade girl. When I asked him if he used a condom, he said ofcourse; when I asked him who had the condom, he said, to my surprise, that bothhe and the girl had had one. What had become of the girl he had sex with? Hewasn't sure; she'd moved away. Did he come under pressure to have sex with hisnew girlfriend? Absolutely."All my boys get mad at me," he said. "They're, like, 'How can you be going outwith this girl for so long? And you don't do anything? When are you going tobreak up with her?' "When I asked him why, despite these pressures, he chose a girlfriend who setsuch strict ground rules, he said that the reason he liked her is because sheis, to use his word, "clean.""It's different with a clean person," he said. "She's still a virgin, and shedoesn't do oral sex."Clearly, the new attention to disease has done a lot of good. Among teens -- whoare at greater risk of getting sexually transmitted diseases, mostly becausethey are more likely than adults to have multiple partners -- the rate ofgonorrhea has gone down, though the chlamydia rate has not. But it seems to methat the emphasis on risk has had a couple of not-so-salutary effects: Inaddition to exacerbating, possibly, the sexual pressure on younger girls --contributing to the stream of come-ons -- it has provided yet another way ofsorting girls, setting them at odds with one another, dividing them (often withno basis in fact) between good and bad, fast and slow, virgin and whore -- and,now, "clean" and "dirty." In a subtle way, modern scare tactics have lent a newvocabulary -- even a fake veneer of legitimacy -- to ancient, perniciousstereotypes."Y'all are going to get diseases! Y'all are going to die!" a girl who isn'tsexually active said one day, talking to two friends who are.The girls were sitting in a circle of desks, in a classroom of an outer-countymiddle school. This was another session of the group I'd first encounteredduring a presentation on contraceptives -- the group where two-thirds of thegirls admitted to having had sex. In some cases, the girls weren't admitting somuch as bragging. And in this -- their outspoken sexual aggressiveness -- theyare part of another relatively new phenomenon that people in the field havebegun to notice: a trend of girls who openly pursue sex, brag about sex, lieabout sex, boldly offer themselves as sexual objects. It's something that'staking place on all socioeconomic levels, according to Judith Mueller, executivedirector of the Women's Center in Vienna, who says that her counselors see moreand more mothers bringing in their daughters for therapy to treat what themothers perceive, fearfully, as "sexualized behavior."Which, certainly, is a good term for the swaggering of several girls in thisgroup, which was organized by one teacher, at the request of their schooladministration, as a way of letting the girls vent about their lives, givingthem a chance to talk their way through the fights and arguments and crushes andbreakups and slights and tragedies that constitute the daily life of a13-year-old. This day, they were talking about a party that a classmate washaving over the weekend. Two of the girls -- I'll call them Girl One and GirlTwo -- had been plotting sexual strategies over lunch, giggling over acts suchas one they called "runnin' a train" (serial sex). They were familiar with thehouse where the party was going to be held, and during lunch had mapped it likea battlefield: They knew that there was a closet downstairs, which would beavailable for sexual encounters, and a bathroom ("with a tub!"), and lowshrubbery outside. They knew, too, that the mother was going to be upstairs, butreckoned that she wouldn't be coming downstairs much to check.They estimated that there were going to be about 20 girls and 45 boys at theparty, including older boys, and that "every boy is going to have to get them apiece." Some of the girls would have to service more than one boy, they figured.There would be lap dancing (where a girl gyrates in a guy's lap) and there wouldbe freak dancing (where a guy stands behind a girl and dances close to her, hiscrotch against her bottom) and there would be MTV, and BET, and when the teacherasked them whether it made them nervous or not, being shut up in a closet withboys they didn't necessarily know, they found it impossible to take herseriously."If you don't want to do something with a guy, he's not going to do it!" GirlOne declared.When the teacher asked them if they'd heard of date rape, she said, "Ifsomething happens and a girl screams, people will hear her!""How did you get to be this way?" another girl asked them, amazed and appalled.Later, she looked at me and asked, sort of desperately, "What do you think ofus?"Truly, I didn't know how to answer.As the girls were plotting their sex games, another girl -- I'll call her GirlThree -- was sitting quietly. She was one of the girls who had not had sex;earlier, she'd volunteered that she wasn't ready and wasn't interested.Moreover, she said, she was in a steady relationship with a boyfriend who didn'tpressure her. She was a small girl, reserved, self-possessed, and somethingabout her self-possession must have deeply irritated Girl One and Girl Two,because they started working on her, urging Girl Three -- who couldn't go to theparty because she had to baby-sit -- to let her boyfriend go to the partywithout her."I think you should allow him to dance and have fun -- harmless dancing," one ofthem said.Girl Three didn't disagree. He could go to the party. He could dance. "I'm notworried about it," she said.The next week, I went back, curious to see what had happened at the party. Itwas hard to get details: Only one group member showed up for that day's session.She had gone to the party, and reported that somebody brought a 24-pack ofcondoms, somebody else brought a couple bottles of alcohol, but apparently themom had checked on them more often than they'd expected; at any rate, there hadbeen some freak dancing but then things calmed down, the boys went home and thegirls went to sleep.Something else had happened over the weekend, though. Girl Two had volunteeredto perform oral sex on Girl Three's boyfriend; he had accepted and she had doneit, had sabotaged Girl Three, the one whose boyfriend didn't pressure her. Theteacher, who had already heard about this incident, believed that Girl Three hadmade the two other girls angry, and that Girl Two had set out to break thecouple up."I told him," the teacher said, "that he lost a good girlfriend."The sounds can be elemental at the Annandale Women and Family Center, anurse-run health-care operation that specializes in adolescent health and also,three half-days a week, performs abortions. The day I was there, there was awoman wailing and shouting during her abortion -- "Out, out!" it sounded likeshe was saying -- and a nurse was gently saying, to a woman on a gurney, "It'stime to wake up!" About a third of the center's abortion clients are teenagers;one, pres-ent that day, was a high school senior who described herself aspro-life. She had given speeches against abortion in her high school, she said,but then she had gotten pregnant and there was no steady boyfriend and, well,here she was.I was there in part because I was interested in the ways states are attemptingto regulate abortions performed on minors. In Virginia, as in many states, thereis now a law saying that girls under 18 must notify at least one parent beforehaving an abortion. When a girl calls up, the receptionist must now ask how oldshe is; if she is under 18, the receptionist tells her that she must beaccompanied by a parent, or have a signed letter from a parent indicatingknowledge of the girl's intent. At some clinics, the receptionist might alsopoint out that the letter doesn't have to be notarized. A girl can interpretthis as she wishes. There is no law that says the clinic has to verify theletter she provides.As it is, however, the law may be more symbolism than substance. Gail Frances,the nurse-practitioner who founded and owns the Annandale center and itsMaryland branch, Cygma Health Center, says that most teenagers who come forabortions do arrive with a parent and that the youngest often arrive with both,and that this was true before the law took effect. There was the militaryfather, for example, who called up and wanted to know if he could make anappointment for that day; when he brought his daughter in, he insisted that shewas only a couple weeks pregnant but the sonogram showed that she was reallyseveral months along. This is common: Kids tell their parents they've onlymissed one period, when in fact they've missed three. Another day, the abortionwas for a 12-year-old girl who also had been brought by her father. They hadrecently immigrated; before their illegal crossing, worried that she might beraped by a border guide, he had shaved her head to make her look like a boy. Ithadn't worked, the anguished father said. He was hoping never to have to tellthe girl's mother, who hadn't yet joined them in this country.I was also there simply to talk to Gail about adolescence, about the kids theclinic sees for ordinary medical appointments, to find out how she advisesparents to talk to their kids about sex. Gail, who gives seminars on the topic,is a big advocate of being very explicit with kids; of being precise about termseven at an early age, using words like "vagina" and "uterus" so kids won't growup thinking precise terms are dirty. As part of the center's outreach, staffmembers sometimes put kids in one room and parents in another, and inevitablyget a "totally different story" from parents and kids about what the kids knowand do and wonder about. I'd heard about this technique from other researchers,who say that often when parents are asked whether they talk to their kids aboutsex, they say "yes." When the kids are asked the same question, they say "no."Gail and her staff are part of a vast, ideologically conflicted complex ofadvocates who are trying to help kids in this age group, an agglomeration ofteachers, coaches, guidance counselors and church leaders -- liberals andconservatives who, for all their strong differences, are alike in their goal ofdiscouraging sex among young teens. Everybody, basically, is for abstinence. Thequestion is how you get there and what you do when that mission fails. Theydivide themselves, you could say, along a continuum between idealism andpragmatism: idealists being people who believe that young people really can bescared out of having sex and pragmatists being people who believe in dealingwith whatever the kids are doing, or might be doing, or someday will do."Even if your child is not doing it, if your child is not even thinking aboutit, you have to realize that your child is still in school with children who aredoing it and thinking about it and talking about it," says sexuality counselorKrystal Holland-McKinney. "There are kids who are in the schools French-kissingand touching each other, and your child is exposed to it. You can't hide it."I spent a lot of time with Krystal, who is program director of FlorenceCrittenton Services in Silver Spring. Her organization is an offshoot of theFlorence Crittenton homes, which were founded in the 19th century for "fallenand betrayed" (which is to say, pregnant) girls. Reinvented for the newmillennium, the Silver Spring branch still offers services to teen mothers, butalso conducts 30-week "life skills and comprehensive sexuality education"programs in public schools -- sexuality education being a more marketable termthan "pregnancy prevention." In the beginning weeks, girls are coached inself-esteem and encouraged to explore their own personalities; the conversationsthen turn to their relationship with others. Not until spring does the courseaddress sex.I found Krystal's way with kids to be impressive and instructive. Rather thansimply delivering information, she tends to ask a lot of questions: frank,sympathetic, sometimes rapid-fire questions that respect kids' intelligence,avoid judging and encourage them to think situations through. Once, for example,I saw her talking to a 13-year-old girl. The girl, pale and chubby, with longcolorless hair that she tended to play with nervously, was in a mall, on a fieldtrip with her sex-ed group. During lunch, she had managed to strike up aconversation with an older guy, a stranger, at a nearby table. Krystal neatlyended that interaction by sliding her lunch tray next to the girl. She almostimmediately found out that the girl had what might delicately be called "homeissues." The girl, who was white, was going out with an older black guy, and hermother had told her that if she became pregnant by a black man, "she would pullthe baby out and stomp it on the ground."Krystal, who is black, said, "Has your mother had experience with black men thatwould lead her to think that way?""Do you feel badly, the way she talks about black people?""Is your dad around?""Does he feel the same way?""How do you think you will be with your own children?"As Krystal listened, the girl started talking vaguely about moving out of herhouse and in with her boyfriend. "If it ends," Krystal asked her, "what will youdo then? Where will you go?"Another time, I watched Krystal working with a group of high school boys who hadbeen brought by their coach. Amazingly, it is rare that anybody pays muchattention to boys; there are few sexuality programs for boys, apart from basichealth-class sex-ed. This day, Krystal arrived with a game in which she tossedcards with words on them like "vagina" and "testicles" and "fallopian tube" and"semen" on the table and encouraged the boys to pair up the words and explainwhy they had paired them. She also talked about relationships, asking them ifthey'd ever had a girl tell them she was pregnant."Oh NO!" the boys said, collapsing with laughter.If a girl said that, Krystal asked them, "what do you think she wants?""Some money," said one boy."Some support," said another.She agreed that some girls aren't trustworthy, that some girls sleep around, butif you don't know a girl well enough to know whether she's serious when she saysshe's pregnant, Krystal wanted to know, "then should you lay down with her?"She showed them a chart of the female anatomy, saying things like, "Doeseveryone know what the cervix is?" and then she showed them how the vaginaworks. To make it really clear she stood up, positioning her own body next tothe drawing, and said, "If this is me standing sideways, see how my vagina goestoward the back?" The boys nodded, transfixed: Here was a lady revealing to themthe world's greatest mystery. "Do you know how deep a vagina is?"The boys didn't."It's only three or four inches," she said, explaining that sex, therefore, canbe very painful for a girl or woman if it goes too fast; or if she doesn't wantit; or if she's scared; or if her brain is sending stress messages to her body;but that if a boy proceeds slowly, and gently, the vagina can relax and enlarge."So you have to ease up," one of them said."That's right," Krystal said.Afterward, I asked her if there was any way to identify why some young kids havesex and others don't. It's hard, she said. "You can't look at a child and say,'She's not involved in any of that, she knows where her head is and she knowswhat her goals are and she's not going to have sex now.' " But she does thinkcertain kinds of kids are more likely candidates for sex: a child who is hangingaround with other kids having sex; a child who has a lot of free time andoverworked parents and little supervision; or a child "who doesn't have astrong, healthy relationship with at least one parent, where they can talk aboutwhat's on their mind and what they're dealing with."During the time that I'd spent with Krystal and others, it became clear how muchthe complexity of adult lives affects children. So often, it seemed that a girlwho was having sex or was on the verge of giving in to pressure came from a homewith a single parent, or a home in some state of emotional chaos. In particular,it struck me that girls who came up to their counselors with really complex,adult-type problems -- like one sweet-looking 13-year-old, who approached onecounselor to mention that her boyfriend had a baby by a girl who lived inanother state, and she'd urged him to stay in contact with the mother of thischild but he wasn't really interested, and did the counselor think she shouldcontinue going out with him? -- were girls who did not live with their ownfathers, often girls having problems with stepdads. This was purely animpression. Nothing systematic. But the prophylactic importance of the fatheris, I think, too often ignored: One study, published last year, indicated that agirl who has a close relationship with her father may actually, physically, comeinto puberty later than a girl who doesn't. Researchers don't know why thishappens, but speculate that not having a father around may create stress thatpushes a girl into early sexual maturity."Parents today discount how important they are to their children and how muchtheir children look to them for values," says Kristin Moore, president of theresearch group Child Trends, who recommends talking to kids about sex not oncebut often; talking to boys as well as girls; and being specific. What good,after all, does it do to say to your kid, "Be careful"? Does that mean go to aclinic? Carry a condom? Watch out for predators? Walk on the sidewalk and not inthe street?"I told her that it's very hard getting a job without a high school degree. Wewent through the whole thing. I said, 'If you ever decide to have sex, I won'tbe happy with your decision; however, I have to support your decision.' I gother as much information as I could about disease. We talked about condoms, aboutusing it always. That if you ever decide you are ready to have sex, all I ask isthat you tell me first. And what did she do? She had sex and didn't tell me!"This is one mother talking. I'll call her Big D, and I'll call her daughterLittle D. The daughter, who is 16, wouldn't mind having her name in the paper,because that's another thing about kids these days -- kids will talk withstrangers about sex, they'll talk with reporters, and often they are willing touse their names because, hey, the kids on "Real World" have sex and use theirnames -- but the mother, Big D, says no, don't use your name.They are sitting at a round kitchen table. It is a Saturday morning, early,rainy. The girl is thin, and tall, with wide eyes and hair pulled back in aponytail; Big D is looking at her fondly. They say they have a greatrelationship. They talk all the time. Big D is a strict mother, too strict,Little D thinks. She won't let Little D have a pager. She won't let Little D goto a lot of parties. She watches the clothes that Little D wears, and intervenesif she thinks they're too revealing. She gets up early in the morning to go towork, but she always talks to her daughter over breakfast, and she makes suresomebody is there after school. She does everything she can think of. But twoyears ago, Little D started getting some attention from a guy. An older guy. Forthree months she resisted. The boy was cute. All the girls were after him.Suddenly, she had a new social cachet! Eventually she had sex with him. Shedidn't tell her mom. Her friends told her not to tell. "Your friends!" says BigD now.She didn't like those friends. Andit turns out that, because of them, she didn't know what was happening; didn'tknow that her little girl had sex, and then sat up afterward, and said to theboy, "That's it? That's all? I could have waited!""What do you mean?" the boy asked."It wasn't all that!" she told him."You just weren't into it!" he said."I was into it!" she said. "It wasn't all that!"Big D laughs now, despite herself. It was the next boy she caught. One night,she was sitting downstairs and heard some rustling, and she didn't know what itwas, but before she went to bed she checked on Little D, as she always does, andthere the boy was, in bed with her daughter! He had climbed in through thewindow! Big D went for the boy, who jumped out the window before he even had achance to pull his pants up. The next day, she called in reinforcements: LittleD's grandmother called her, and her aunt came over, and Big D also made anappointment to have Little D checked by a doctor and tested for AIDS, venerealdisease, the whole nine yards. "I'm concerned about pregnancy, but I'm moreconcerned about AIDS," Big D admits. "You have options with pregnancy. You don'thave options with AIDS."In other words, she has talked, she has done everything. Has it helped? Maybe.Does it matter that Little D doesn't have a father living with her to beat theboys away with a stick? Maybe. The only clear thing is that a girl these daysbetter have a strong inner compass, because the wider culture isn't going togive her one; the pull of peer pressure can be as strong as a riptide. "All Ican do is keep talking," Big D figures; today, for example, they are going totalk about Little D's new boyfriend, with whom she is considering having sex.Sitting there looking at her, so beloved by her mother, I think: New boy makesthree. How many boys does it take before you go from being thought of as onesort of girl to being thought of as another? As it happens, Little D says,recently a new boy moved in to their school and some ex-friends of hers told himsome things about her, and when she called him up he told her what theex-friends said. That she has a disease. Which isn't true."I was, like: 'Think about this!' " Little D says, sitting there at the table,outraged. " 'Think about what they're saying. Why would they tell you somethinglike that about me? You know they don't like me. Have you ever seen me talkingto them?' I'm, like, 'Why would I give that to anybody?' He was, like, 'WhereI'm from girls will do that.' I'm, like, 'Girls will do that, I don't care wherethey're from, but I wouldn't do that.' He was, like, 'Well, I don't know.' ""I feel bad for her," Big D says. "I told her, people are always going to besaying something. You can't beat yourself up. You have to persevere."Little D points out, plaintively: "And I only wanted to be friends."Liza Mundy is a Magazine staff writer. She will be fielding questions andcomments about this article Monday at 1 p.m. at www.washingtonpost.com/liveonline.