Michael Berry prowled the streets of South Central Los Angeles in a rentedsilver Volvo, searching for a clue. He turned onto a residential street called12th Avenue, peered at each home and then slowed the car almost to a stop. Hisheart fluttered.Off to his left was the address that had obsessed him for months. He saw awell-tended bungalow with crisp green grass. Watering the lawn was a man coveredin tattoos and wearing a sleeveless undershirt and aviator sunglasses, whowatched closely as Berry drove by."Oh crap, I didn't do this right," Berry muttered to himself, gripping thesteering wheel a little tighter and trying not to stare back.He had come 2,700 miles from his townhouse in Arlington to scope out the placethat somehow had appeared on credit reports as his new home. Some cretin usingthe address had opened at least 15 new credit card accounts in Berry's name andrun up thousands of dollars in bills for clothing, flowers, gasoline andtelephone calls.Berry had always taken pride in paying his bills on time. At 33, he was thechief operating officer of the Independent Women's Forum, a conservative women'sgroup, mingling regularly with Washington lawmakers and Republican activists.The theft of his identity was changing everything: threatening not just hiscredit rating, which was in tatters, but his respectability, his very sense ofhimself as a man firmly in control of his own life. Now, as he drove by the tidyhouse in L.A., he was at a loss. "I felt," he says, "totally helpless."He had tried to report the financial problems to L.A. police. Because he wasn'ta resident, and the fraud was not considered large enough, they brushed him offover the telephone. When he called police in Arlington, a friendly officer tookhis report. But he got no promises. Arlington, the officer said, had nojurisdiction in California.Berry pulled up the street, turned the car around and parked. Pretending to dopaperwork in his lap, he kept watch for anything suspicious. "Be careful," hetold himself. "Sit back and watch."He had good reason to take care. Just days before, he'd learned from a Floridahomicide detective that a man who had assumed his persona -- using his SocialSecurity number and carrying a driver's license with his name -- was a convictedmurderer who was wanted for fresh killings in two states. That meant that Berry,the real Berry, was liable to be taken into custody as a wanted man at any time.Sitting in his office in south Arlington, Berry dialed a toll-free number andwaited for the computerized voice at Chase Manhattan Bank to prompt him. Hepunched in the number of his Chase Platinum MasterCard. It was early January2002, six months before his visit to Los Angeles, and he was trying toconsolidate his debts onto one low-interest card.He sat back in his chair as he told the clerk his current income and how muchcredit he wanted. When he hung up, he was certain the bank would comply, becausehe had never missed a payment, even when he was between jobs. A few days later,he heard the news. He was rejected. "I'm sorry," the clerk told him. "You haveopened too many cards lately."Berry was puzzled, but not particularly upset. "This is a mistake," he thought.He'd get it fixed. Determined by nature, Berry was used to working throughproblems and, eventually, getting where he wanted to be.As an undergraduate at the University of Southern California, he'd found his wayinto the state headquarters of the 1988 Bush-Quayle campaign, landing avolunteer job recruiting and coordinating college activists. He became head ofthe Trojan College Republicans at USC, one of the state's largest collegepolitical groups. After transferring to Pepperdine University in his junioryear, Berry parlayed his burgeoning Rolodex into prestigious internships atRonald Reagan's post-White House office and in the Bush administration, where heworked as an advance man for Vice President Quayle.He had every intention of staying in Washington as a political operative. But hecut short his plans after his father had a heart attack. He moved back to hishome town in central California and took a job as a teacher, following in thefootsteps of his father. Not long after, Berry faced his own health crisis. Hewas diagnosed with testicular cancer at the age of 24. For a time, he thought hemight die. His doctors urged him to donate sperm in case he wanted a familysomeday. Then they removed one testicle and prescribed radiation therapy.The treatments that cured Berry also nauseated him and sapped his vitality. Butafter the ordeal was over, he worked his way through the education bureaucracyand became an elementary school principal. He never lost interest in politics,though, and decided to move back to D.C. a few years ago. He became a specialassistant to Texas Sen. Kay Bailey Hutchison on the Hill before moving over tothe Independent Women's Forum.Berry tried to put his savvy to work for him. After the rejection from Chase, hemade a round of calls to the top three credit bureaus, Trans Union, Experian andEquifax, companies that operate near the center of the U.S. economy. Workingwith banks, retailers, landlords, car dealerships and an array of otherenterprises, the credit bureaus collect and share extraordinarily rich financialdetails about nearly every adult in America: where we live, how much money weowe and to whom, and whether we pay our bills on time.Credit bureaus sold some 1.2 billion credit reports in the United States lastyear, more than double the number a decade ago. Many of the transactions thatcharacterize American life depend on those reports. They are factored intomortgage loans and credit offers, used to weed out risky tenants and screenpeople for mobile phone service. Some identifying personal information in them,including addresses and Social Security numbers, also has helped fill thereservoirs of information brokers, who resell data to lawyers, debt collectorsand jilted spouses searching for wayward mates. The reports are also perfectfodder for identity thieves.The credit bureaus mailed Berry his own reports, which were sullied by all kindsof purchases he hadn't made. According to the credit agencies' computers, he hadsought, received and quickly used thousands of dollars in instant credit fromGap and Old Navy. He had maxed out a $ 1,500 limit obtained a few weeks beforefrom the QVC shopping channel. He had charged hundreds of dollars' worth of gasin the Los Angeles area on a new Exxon card, along with $ 462 on a new phoneline in Riverside, Calif.Anxiety surged through Berry at these revelations. He'd been paying off his carloan early and sharing a townhouse with two roommates to save money, but he knewall the wild spending attributed to him would damage his credit rating. If hedidn't get this cleared up, he might have trouble buying a house.Berry discovered from other businesses that his fictive counterpart had senthundreds of dollars' worth of roses and a stuffed bear to a Los Angeles womannamed Joann. "These flowers are from You Know Who," read the note thataccompanied the flowers. "I love you a lot and your conversation." A few dayslater, You Know Who sent another pile of roses to a woman named Maisha, thistime with a contrite note attached: "I am sorry for lying, cheating, beingselfish."It was as though You Know Who -- and maybe others -- was in a spending frenzy,trying to squeeze as much money as possible out of Berry's identity before thescam was shut down. In some cases, the fraud artist or artists got cute, using"Bebe Hooker" as his spouse's name on one credit application, and "Lucy Love" ashis mother's maiden name on another. But the incorrect information didn't get inthe way of the applications being approved.Old Navy had decided to open a new account, in January 2002, for instance, eventhough the man impersonating Berry used the wrong address. At the same time, thecompany that issues cards for Old Navy -- Monogram Credit Card Bank of Georgia,a subsidiary of General Electric Capital Corp. -- also had granted the impostorcredit cards for Exxon, Gap and QVC.Monogram knew it was taking a risk on those accounts. About a month after theOld Navy account was maxed out, Berry received a computer-generated letter fromMonogram. The company expressed its uncertainty and asked Berry to tell itwhether a mistake had been made."Dear Cardholder," it began. "We have recently opened up a credit card account,in your name, with OLD NAVY. Since, the address in the application did not matchthe address contained in the consumer credit bureau report, we are writing toyou to confirm that the credit card account was opened at your request."If you did apply for this account, you do not need to respond."When Berry called Monogram, a representative assured him the Old Navy accountwould be closed and the charges removed from his credit report within six weeks.Berry felt better after hanging up the phone -- a sense of relief that wouldn'tlast long.Identity theft is perhaps the most glaring symptom of the ills that haveaccompanied the data revolution of the 1990s. Bounced checks. Loan denials.Harassment from debt collectors. Victims of identity theft -- and there aremillions of them -- are often haunted by the consequences for years.Some government officials estimate that as many as 750,000 people a year arevictimized. Others think that number is way too low. Last month Gartner Inc., abusiness research group, estimated that 7 million Americans have fallen prey toidentity thieves in the past year alone, an extraordinary figure mirrored by anew survey from Privacy & American Business, an industry-funded think tank.Another study, by Star Systems, a company that facilitates the majority of U.S.ATM transactions, suggests that almost 12 million Americans in all, or about onein 19 adults, have been hit by such fraud.David Medine, a former Federal Trade Commission and White House official, andnow a leading information law specialist at the law firm Wilmer, Cutler &Pickering, has an unscientific test he uses to judge the extent of the problem.He asks friends at Washington parties if they've been a victim or know a victim.These days, Medine says, almost everyone has a horror story to contribute to theconversation. "You have this seemingly low-level crime that, cumulatively, is anational crisis," Medine says.The financial costs are staggering, though no one can put a precise dollarfigure on them. Star Systems estimates the losses at $ 24 billion, the vastmajority in the past decade, a burden shouldered largely by the nation'sfinancial institutions as a cost of doing business.They are well aware that identity thieves are growing not only more numerous,but more menacing. Scam artists and grifters have been joined by criminal groupsfrom abroad and street gangs that once specialized in robberies or extortion.And as September 11 made plain, identity theft also has become a favoredtechnique of terrorists. Often using documents generated by desktop computers,they take on fake names, Social Security numbers, birth certificates anddriver's licenses in schemes to cloak themselves and raise money for theiroperations. It is, law enforcement authorities agree, frighteningly easy forthem to get away with it.The nature of identity has always been the stuff of mystery stories and filmnoir. One of the great American novels of the 20th century, The Great Gatsby,has questions about the mutability of identity at its core. Now those sameissues have become the stuff of national security debates.One of the most vexing questions facing those responsible for making life inAmerica safe from crime and terror is this: How can we prove that someone is whohe or she claims to be? For most of our history, that was fairly easy to answerfor the majority of Americans. We defined individuals' identities by theirparents, siblings and friends. By the town they lived in and the schools theyattended. By the clubs and organizations they joined. In many cases we knew themby sight, or at least knew someone who could vouch for them. Those who wanted toremake themselves, to break free of the bonds of their own histories, had tomove away.In our lifetimes, all that has faded away, as Americans conduct more and morebusiness electronically, move from town to town and job to job, and generallyknow one another less well. Now, as often as not, the practical terms of ouridentities are defined by "data elements" contained in hundreds or thousands ofcomputers.Our Social Security numbers and addresses. Our mothers' maiden names and middleinitials. Our birth dates and the special numbers and nicknames we use as ourpasswords. The things we buy, the cars we own and the way we use our creditcards. These details, combined just so by computers and analysts, nowauthenticate us in the way that personal links used to, serving as virtual keysto financial accounts, retail outlets, communication, air travel and governmentservices."What are the last four digits of your Social Security number?" we are asked."What's your Zip code?"The problem is, the "data elements" required to authenticate customers on thefly are often available to criminals at little or no cost, sometimes openly onthe Web, other times for fees from information brokers.The brokers, who run the gamut from legitimate businesses to questionablecharacters operating out of their living rooms, peddle all sorts of personalinformation for as little as $ 25 a pop. Some even manage to get their hands oncredit reports, which are especially prized by identity thieves. In November,federal prosecutors arrested three men who had stolen some 30,000 credit reportsfor resale and use in identity theft schemes.Then there are the hackers skilled at stripping computers of names, SocialSecurity numbers and financial records. In one recent case, hackers plundered 10million Visa, MasterCard and American Express numbers from a company thatprocesses transactions for merchants. Card holders didn't learn about theintrusion until the FBI jumped in to investigate.Bob Blakley, chief scientist for security and privacy at IBM Tivoli Systems, asoftware maker, says that most Americans mistakenly assume their old notions ofidentity still apply, that computers and clerks can accept at face value anindividual's answer to the question: Who are you? "That's really a profoundlyfalse view of the way that identity works," says Blakley, who recently served ona National Academy of Sciences group examining these issues. "There's a greatdeal more opportunity for confusion. It's really complicated to sort out who'swho."Sometime in the spring of 2002, a man posing as Michael Berry moved into Bay RunII apartments, a working-class complex in Orlando. He'd come from California andsublet the place from a friend of a relative.His real name was Demorris Andy Hunter, a convicted killer who'd spent 13 yearsin Folsom State Prison for a 1985 murder. He looked nothing like Berry, a bigman with pale Irish skin who stands six feet tall and weighs close to 200pounds. Hunter was smaller -- only 5 feet 7 inches and 150 pounds -- and AfricanAmerican. A police photo of Hunter shows a tired-looking man with a shaved headand a slight scowl.None of those differences mattered when Hunter showed up in Orlando. Peopleassumed the California driver's license with Berry's name and Hunter's photo waslegitimate. A fake Social Security card displaying Berry's number also passedmuster. Those documents helped Hunter get a job at B's, a barbecue joint wherehe washed dishes and bused tables.Bay Run residents who met the man calling himself Michael Berry considered him afriendly if somewhat wary character. Soon after moving in, he was attendingparties and getting to know some of his neighbors. One of his new friends wasTheresa Green, a part-time hospital secretary who lived one floor up with her14-year-old son.On May 25, 2002, he and Green attended a party in an apartment in the samebuilding that ran into the early morning hours. According to those who attended,the two drank copiously and danced to the loud music until the party ended atabout 2:30 a.m. But Green didn't want to leave, and when Hunter pulled her away,the two started arguing and somehow fell down a set of stairs. Later, theiryelling could be heard through the walls of her apartment.About 7 a.m. that morning, Hunter approached Joseph Butler, the neighbor who hadhad the party. Hunter gave him keys to a borrowed van and, without explainingwhy, asked that he follow him to a drugstore in a suburban town more than 15miles away. Hunter drove Green's white Oldsmobile, but she wasn't around.After leaving Green's car in the drugstore parking lot, Hunter dropped Butleroff and disappeared in the van. Green was found early the next day. She wasdead, stuffed into the trunk of her own car. It appeared she'd been strangled.Orlando homicide detectives Roy Filippucci and Barbara Bergin received pages onMemorial Day afternoon. When they went to Green's apartment they found drywallbroken in one spot and some personal items on her bed that had been rifledthrough. When the two made the rounds in the neighborhood, talking to people whoknew Green, they turned up a suspect in no time: a man named Michael Berry.With a felt-tip pen, Berry outlined several lines of charges noted on his TransUnion Personal Credit Report and Score. "NOT ME!," he sketched in. "FRAUD." Hecircled the last word five or six times out of frustration, as he thought aboutwhat to do next.It was spring 2002, about the time that his impersonator had moved to Orlando,and as usual Berry was working to offset the damage.He had lost count of the telephone calls he had made to the credit bureaus, thebanks and the stores that had drawn him unwillingly into their business. He hadfilled white legal pads on his desk with contact names, reference numberstagging his complaints, and dollar amounts.His boss and co-workers knew about his trouble and now and then asked forupdates or offered to help him. To make up for all the time he was spending onthe telephone and writing letters, he worked later each day. His usual 60-hourworkweek grew even longer."I was totally in war room mode," Berry says. "Every single day I was calling .. . The applications were pouring in every single day."His notes show that from December to May, there were new requests for cards fromMBNA and Household Bank, two of the nation's largest credit issuers. One came infor Macy's. Another report alerted him to the fact that someone was trying toopen a Cingular cell phone account in his name.Berry noticed the thief's methods changing, growing cheekier with time. In someapplications, the thief started to use Berry's parents' address and his birthdate. Someone also was making up information about him, writing on oneapplication that he was a lawyer who worked for the City of Los Angeles andearned $ 75,000 a year.It was a grind, but it seemed like Berry was making headway. He had placed a"fraud alert" in all his credit report files, a service that tells companiesinquiring about creditworthiness to be careful in granting additional credit ornew loans. "I felt like I was getting near victory, when I was catching thembefore they were being issued," he says. "I absolutely thought the worst of thisis over."In fact, his troubles were just cresting.Berry discovered that he had almost no legal standing as a victim to make aformal report to authorities. That realization dawned on him when he called Det.Dave Harned, a veteran in the Commercial Crimes Division of the Los AngelesPolice Department.Harned takes all the calls about identity theft and directs them to the rightplace. He made it clear where Berry's report was going: into an inactive file.Not only was Berry not a Los Angeles resident, Harned told him, his claimsdidn't come close to meeting the department's informal threshold forinvestigation. "We wait for the retailers or credit bureaus to make a report,"he told Berry.Berry tried persuading Harned to change his mind, explaining that he knewexactly where all the fraudulent mail was going. "Even if you have an address,you have to prove he did it," Harned explained later. "People call me every dayand say, 'I've got an address. We've solved the case.'"Though he couldn't offer Berry much help, Harned likens identity theft to"financial rape," and blames it on the financial and data-driven businesses thattraffic so freely in personal information. "The credit card companies andeverybody else make it so easy," Harned says.His department has resources to investigate only a tiny fraction of the 100-plusidentity theft complaints it receives every day. "You almost have to pick andchoose what case you're going to work, because of the volume," he says, adding,"Last year was bad, but this year is going to be worse."The reasons for the surge in identity theft are complex. But the problemultimately comes down to a few salient facts. For one, we are awash ininformation about ourselves. Twenty-four hours a day, every day of the year, thecredit bureaus, information services, groceries, pharmacies, toll collectors,banks and other institutions gather information about us. They build modelsabout what we are likely to buy and, sometimes, learn more about us in refinedmercantile terms than we know ourselves. They often resell or share informationabout us.At the same time, the institutions responsible for safeguarding all this dataoften do a poor job of it, according to regulators, consumer advocates andprivacy specialists. The information industry, including brokers, marketers andcredit bureaus, has steadfastly and successfully opposed much governmentregulation in recent years, arguing that it would make life less convenient andmore costly.The data revolution has indeed spurred an explosion in new credit opportunities.Those who once could not afford to borrow, or were not given access to loans,can now get credit cards in the time it takes to buy a pair of shoes or aT-shirt, thanks to electronic networks, the credit reporting system andregulatory changes over the years. Banks such as 1st American claim they canprovide "preapproved" credit cards, via the World Wide Web, in under threeminutes.Credit issuers drum up business through junk mail solicitations, almost 5billion of them last year, according to a company called Synovate, which trackssuch offers. Never mind that only a fraction of the people who receive thesepitches embrace them or that they have made life easier for identity thieves,who sometimes search through mailboxes as a starting point in their scams. Manyof these offers come from banks that have no tellers, no branches, no people atall of the sort that once came to know customers over a period of many years.From the standpoint of credit card issuers, the solicitations have been aroaring success. There are now more than 3 billion Visa and MasterCard cards incirculation around the world, generating huge profits for the companies thatissue them. Two-thirds of all American adults have credit cards now, about 10 onaverage.The problem is security, or the lack of it. Peter Tosches, a spokesman forMonogram, says that retailers, in a desire to make things easy for customers,will often approve credit cards for individuals who provide only a picture IDand an unverified Social Security number. While companies like Monogram try toguard against identity fraud in such circumstances, Tosches says, the thieveshave become increasingly sophisticated in sidestepping security measures.The credit bureaus also have a checkered history of responding to complaintsabout identity theft and mistakes. After years of complaints, Congress amendedthe Fair Credit Reporting Act in 1996 to force credit bureaus to be moreresponsive to individuals, particularly those worried about mistaken reports.Among other things, the bureaus were supposed to provide easy access to theirclerks by maintaining toll-free telephone lines. They didn't do a good enoughjob, at least according to the FTC.Despite the clear message from Congress, hundreds of thousands of telephonecalls to the three credit bureaus went unanswered, or met with a busy signal. InJanuary 2000, the bureaus paid $ 2.5 million to settle FTC charges that theywere not properly responsive. Many people complain they still aren't.In one eye-opening case, an Oregon woman named Judy Thomas sued Trans Union forallowing errors to remain on her credit report. She spent six years calling andwriting to the company, trying to get Trans Union to permanently remove damningdetails -- such as unpaid bills -- that belonged on another woman's report.Court records showed Trans Union mistakenly assumed Thomas was the other woman.Her report would be fixed one month only to show up tainted again several monthslater.After hearing her story, a federal jury awarded Thomas $ 5.3 million last yearfor her trouble. While the judge reduced the award to $ 1.3 million, it wasstill a record. Trans Union wrote a check to Thomas earlier this year.Evan Hendricks, a consumer advocate and editor of the Privacy Times newsletter,testified on Thomas's behalf and believes her problem was related to the factthat so much of our information is processed automatically by computers, notpeople. "Human beings cost money that the credit bureaus and the credit grantersdon't want to spend," he explains. "That's why this is going to get worse beforethis gets better."Identity theft is almost laughably easy to commit, and terribly difficult toprevent. Consider the strange case of James Rinaldo Jackson, a genial con artistfrom Memphis, Tenn. He knew that major financial institutions routinely gave outconfidential customer account information to callers.Standing before federal judge Deborah Batts in Manhattan two years ago, Jacksondescribed how he easily took advantage of that porous security, dupinginformation brokers, banks, credit card companies and even a funeral home.Before he was caught in a sting operation, he netted some $ 730,000 in diamondsand Rolex watches by using the information he gleaned.Jackson got the idea from a magazine ad that showed glinting diamonds for saleonline. As he looked at the slick photos, he thought, "I would sure like to getsome of these diamonds to just have." He described how he gathered bits andpieces of information about his targets, including Gordon Teter, the latechairman of Wendy's International Inc.; Nackey Loeb, the now-deceased presidentand publisher of the Manchester, N.H., Union Leader; and other corporateexecutives.Starting with an online version of Who's Who in America, he turned toinformation brokers, paying them $ 50 and $ 100 for Social Security numbers andbanking details. With some of the basics in hand, he called his targets' banksand persuaded clerks to hand over account numbers. That enabled Jackson to tapthe accounts directly over the phone, sidestepping the need to talk to clerksthe next time around.Then it was a simple matter of calling dealers, ordering the jewels and wiringthe money. He had his booty sent to hotels, to which he dispatched a confederateto pick up the packages. "Amazing, Mr. Jackson, absolutely amazing," Batts said."Keep going."He told Batts that MasterCard, Visa and American Express, along with banks inOhio, New York and New Hampshire, all got taken in.In the parlance of law enforcement, his specialty is known as "pretext calling"-- using scraps of personal information to trick clerks on the telephone intodivulging even more information. It's an old con that's become easier than ever.Jackson was so good -- and security at his targets was so weak -- that heconvinced the Fifth Third Bank in Ohio to wire almost $ 300,000 from Teter'saccounts to diamond and watch merchants. He also changed Teter's billingaddresses to Jonesboro, Ark.Robert Dunn, his attorney, said Jackson would have been stopped much earlier hadthe companies required passwords before sharing customers' information orallowing him to act on the accounts. "That simple screen would have thwartedmuch of what he was able to accomplish," Dunn said.Regulators and law enforcement officials had warned financial institutions yearsago that identity thieves and information brokers were tricking clerks intogiving them access to individuals' financial information. They urged banks torequire customers to use passwords or codes instead of Social Security numbers,mothers' maiden names and other widely available personal information toidentify themselves when calling. But for years, many financial institutionsdidn't bother."We don't want to make it difficult for customers to get access to theiraccounts," Robin Warren, then a privacy executive at Bank of America Corp., saidbefore Jackson was sentenced. "Customers get irritated."In the days after Green's death, Barbara Bergin made the case a mission, and sheworked all hours tracking down the killer. She is an aggressive cop who ridesHarley-Davidson motorcycles, a 20-year veteran of the Orlando department whoworked her way up from beat patrol to the homicide squad. She also is charmingand knows how to work her sources. After coming up with Berry's name and somedetails about the killer, she sent off a request to California authorities forBerry's fingerprints, a copy of his license and a photo. On June 2, Bergin got ahit on some records in California. But there was a problem. The Michael Berryshe was looking for was a short African American guy. The records she receivedshowed the real Berry.With help from neighbors who'd heard Hunter mention his previous jail time, andfrom a California official who searched through records on her behalf, Berginturned up Hunter's real name from scraps of evidence she had found. She alsodiscovered the case was more sordid than she thought. Hunter also was wanted forthe slaying of an Oakland, Calif., woman named Ivora Denise Huntly, who'd beenshot two months before Green's death. California authorities believe Hunterkilled Huntly as she tried to prevent him from beating his girlfriend.The next day Bergin called the real Berry at his office in Arlington. "There's aserious problem here," she told him. She was putting out a national warrant forHunter's arrest on murder charges, and would use Berry's name as his alias."Things could be very bad for you."Berry was scared, and he didn't know what to do. "This was the first indicationI had this wasn't just a fraud problem. This was someone who was killing people,posing as me."Bergin explained the warrant meant that he, the real Michael Berry, could bepicked up for murder. The law enforcement computers would tell officers theywere looking for a black man. But cops are so used to getting reports marred bymistakes, she said, they might ignore that detail if they had the right name.The two agreed he should get letters from police in Orlando and Oakland,testifying to his real identity, which he obtained in the coming weeks. "Thelast thing I wanted, after everything he had been through, was for him to be onthe ground, at gunpoint, in handcuffs," Bergin explains. "That could very wellhappen."Michael Berry hurtled west on I-66, sitting in the passenger seat of a friend'scar. With music blaring on the stereo, Berry tried hard to loosen up and thinkabout the meal he was about to have at the Inn at Little Washington, agastronomic mecca he had long dreamed of visiting.It wasn't working. Ever since he'd received the call a few days before fromBergin, he'd worried he might be mistaken for a killer. In the mornings, hefeared he could be stopped while driving his car. Even now he wondered whatwould happen if police asked for his ID.He was pulled out of his reverie by the buzzing of his cell phone. When hechecked his messages, he heard the voice of his friend Arthur Estopinan, chiefof staff to Florida Rep. Ileana Ros-Lehtinen. "Hey, Mike, it's Art," the messagesaid. "You were just the lead story on 'America's Most Wanted.'" Berry calledhim back and grew lightheaded as Estopinan described the episode he'd justwatched."America's Most Wanted" features detailed crime reports and information aboutfugitives. It urges viewers to call in with tips about suspects, and the show'shost, John Walsh, boasts that he has helped authorities capture more than 750people wanted for crimes.On this particular night, Walsh did an episode on Demorris Hunter. "Let's getdown to business. We got to stop a real lady killer," said Walsh, wearing aleather jacket, in a jazzy segment to begin the show. A photo of Hunter filledthe screen."Hunter uses the alias Michael Berry," Walsh said. "Look out, Hunter. Now you'reour prey, because the manhunt starts right now!""Oh my God," Berry exclaimed to Estopinan, "every policeman in America is goingto be after me."The next morning, Berry drove to work and clicked his way to the "America's MostWanted" Web site. When he saw Hunter's photograph, he actually laughed. "So thisis the son of a bitch who is pretending to be me," he murmured, incredulous thathe could get away with the impersonation. "He's not even my height." And hedefinitely wasn't the man he'd seen outside that house in South Central L.A.Then Berry looked at Hunter's biographical material. Once again, he couldn'tbelieve what he was looking at. Below a line naming Berry as Hunter's alias wasBerry's Social Security number. "I'm not looking at my Social Security number onthe World Wide Web," Berry thought. "I'm dreaming. I cannot be looking at this.Any person in the world can be looking at this page right now." (Officials atthe show later said police suggested including it as a detail that might lead toHunter's arrest.)Berry wrote an e-mail to an address set up for crime tips and asked that thenumber be removed from the site. To help out, his sister did the same thing. "Inever got a response," he says. His parents called the show over the next fewdays, but never got calls back in response to their messages.Finally, they said, they turned to an aide in Sen. Dianne Feinstein's office inCalifornia, who called the show on Berry's behalf. Berry's Social Securitynumber was removed from the Web site.As horrified as Berry was about being caught up in a financial tangle with aconvicted killer, it was nothing compared with the dismay of law enforcement andintelligence officials after September 11, 2001.For some time, the FBI could not say exactly who the hijackers really were. Intheir quest, agents resorted to low-tech investigative techniques, knocking ondoors and handing out grainy photographs of the suspects, even as they poredthrough a sea of electronic intelligence.Suddenly, identity theft wasn't just a consumer issue anymore. It was an aspectof global terrorism. The hijackers used phony identification, Social Securitynumbers and birth dates to establish bank accounts and set up their lives in theUnited States. Landlords, flight schools, banks and other institutions took themat their word.Seven of the hijackers got identification cards through the Virginia Departmentof Motor Vehicles even though none of the seven lived in the state. They tookadvantage of rules allowing individuals to meet residency requirements with asimple notarized letter. The system had long been abused by immigrants seekingto establish themselves in the region -- with help from immigration lawyers andlocal notaries. But despite warnings from the FBI and DMV investigators, thedepartment maintained the system as a convenience until shortly after September11."We were seeking to balance legitimate needs with the potential for fraud,"agency spokeswoman Pam Goheen explains.The link between terrorism and identity crimes goes much deeper. Specialistsbelieve that such fraud is becoming a chief source of income for terrorists.Money raised through credit card scams, the resale of goods purchased underassumed names and other types of identity fraud enables cells to remain free ofany financial ties to their leaders or patron states.Authorities allege that al Qaeda terrorists, for example, took on bogusidentities to run a credit card scam in Spain to raise money for their attacks.They also allegedly used stolen telephone cards and IDs to communicate withcolleagues in the Middle East.Dennis Lormel, chief of the FBI's terrorist financial review group, underscoredthe point when he told Congress that identity fraud posed a looming nationalsecurity problem. Not much has changed in the months since he testified, hesays. "I don't think people have really gotten the message. We have knownterrorists out there who are exploiting identity theft and identity fraudvulnerabilities."Ahmed Ressam, a member of an Algerian group with close ties to Osama bin Laden,for instance, was caught in December 1999 at the U.S.-Canadian border with atrunkful of explosives. He had assumed the name Benni Norris, which he used toobtain a passport and open bank accounts. He also got a false birth certificateand a student ID.A member of the Armed Islamic Group, or GIA, Ressam told authorities that herelied on welfare and petty crime, including credit card fraud and traffickingin identity documents, to support himself in Montreal. He was linked to a theftring suspected of funneling money to radical Islamic groups around the world.Authorities believe the ring stole more than 5,000 items, including computers,cellular phones, passports and credit cards, with the goal of financing Muslimextremist groups."Identity theft -- credit card theft, bank fraud -- is hugely important to alQaeda, as it is to many terror groups. I've been astonished that there's been solittle attention paid to it," Magnus Ranstorp, director of the Center for theStudy of Terrorism and Political Violence at the University of St. Andrews inScotland, said in an interview with Newsweek magazine. "The pattern was veryclear within the North African contingent of al Qaeda members operating inEurope. Every time you arrest one of them he has 20 different identities and 20different credit cards."By the time he flew out to Los Angeles in June last year, Berry was out ofpatience. He needed to see for himself the address that mocked him from thepages of his credit reports. Maybe it wouldn't do any good, but maybe going tothe house would turn up evidence that would spur an investigation of the case.If nothing else, it would help Berry feel in control of his life again.As he drove into South Central Los Angeles, he wondered how he'd been targeted.He had once been treated for his testicular cancer not far away at UCLA MedicalCenter. Had someone there shared his information? Could it have been a statemotor vehicle official? Someone in a credit bureau?He called Janie Haskill, a close friend who'd once served as Berry's viceprincipal at an elementary school in central California. She often serves as asounding board for Berry's ideas, and he loves her sense of humor.On this day, she served as a security blanket for a determined but frightenedman. Speaking on his cell phone from his car, he described for her the house andthe man in the sunglasses. He was still describing the scene to her when asharp-looking young man in a Lexus sedan pulled up to the house.The fellow on the lawn disappeared inside for a moment, reappeared and walkedinto the street. He handed the visitor in the Lexus a six-inch stack of mail.Berry watched in rueful, bitter amazement. "I wonder how many of those lettershave credit cards with my name on them," he thought to himself.Then the two men looked directly at Berry, and he almost lost his cool. "I'mscared," he admitted to Haskill. "I want you to know if anything happens.""This is wrong," she hissed back. "Michael, get the hell out of there."While legislators, law enforcement authorities and entrepreneurs recognize theproblem of identity theft, they can't agree on what to do about it.After September 11, many people called for a national ID card, includingtechnology guru Larry Ellison and Harvard law professor Alan M. Dershowitz. TheAmerican Association of Motor Vehicle Administrators also started working on aplan to create a de facto national ID system that would link state databases touniform, high-tech driver's licenses containing computer chips, bar codes andbiometric identifiers, such as fingerprints or iris scans.Government agencies, including the new Transportation Security Administration,have begun requiring workers to use such hardened IDs. Before 9/11, the Pentagonhad already begun issuing some 4 million plastic "smart cards" containing name,rank, photograph and fingerprint.But despite widespread support at first for some sort of national ID system --some surveys found that in the fall of 2001, almost seven of 10 people welcomedone -- the idea foundered. Technical problems and, more important, along-standing aversion to the concept undermined enthusiasm. Some criticsinvoked the specter of Nazi tyranny, bristling at the notion of authoritiesdemanding, "Your papers, please."Since the attacks, there also has been growing use of digital fingerprint, facerecognition and iris-scanning systems to confirm identity at businesses, schoolsand other facilities. There are other technological solutions in the works, somethat have begun stirring other kinds of privacy concerns.Data giants like ChoicePoint, Lexis-Nexis and Acxiom are among many companieswilling to use vast caches of personal information to help airports, retailers,police and other authorities determine, instantly, whether someone is who theyclaim to be. The aviation screening system known as CAPPS II will rely on someof those same companies to sweep through databases and check whether aparticular passenger is "rooted in the community." In addition to identifyinginformation in credit reports, the system will analyze passengers' travelreservations, housing information, family ties and other personal information toauthenticate passengers' identities.Banks and other financial institutions, meanwhile, must now verify theidentities of new customers and make records of customer transactions availableto law enforcement and counterterrorism officials upon request. Some banks areturning to commercial services to authenticate the identities of theircustomers; others are banding together to create their own verification systems.Congress also intends to go at the issue, but credit bureaus and informationservices are expected to fight hard against any legislation that might curbtheir use of data. Five years ago, Congress did approve legislation establishingidentity theft as a federal crime and giving law enforcement authorities morepowers to prosecute.The problem, says Medine, the information law specialist, is that few agenciesmake extensive use of the authority. Investigations are costly and the rewards,in terms of media attention, are relatively scanty. The number of prosecutionsby state and federal authorities, including the FBI, Secret Service and PostalInspection Service, has increased. But they're not close to keeping pace withthe crime, Hendricks and other consumer advocates say.The FTC was very aggressive in drawing attention to the problem a few years ago.It created a database of fraud claims by victims, setting up a system onlinecalled the Consumer Sentinel Network to give law enforcement agencies access tothe tips and complaints. Fewer than 600 of some 18,000 agencies across thecountry have signed up for the service.Sen. Feinstein has already proposed at least four related bills, includinglegislation that would penalize credit card companies that ignore reports offraud. Alabama Sen. Richard Shelby plans to address the issue this year as partof efforts to reauthorize several recent provisions of the Fair Credit ReportingAct, the 1970 law that governs how credit bureaus can use personal financialinformation.Shelby, an intelligence specialist and one of the most savvy privacy advocateson the Hill, considers identity theft a major threat to individuals and tosecurity. But he faces a tough battle if he wants to make any substantivechanges. More than a dozen bills were introduced in the last legislative cycle.None of them passed.Earlier this year, Berry got an e-mail from an acquaintance who knew about hiscase. It included a copy of a wire service account of how police and the FBIcaptured Hunter in Houston on February 21. Police found the van Hunter had beendriving in Orlando, burned and abandoned, not far from the house where he wascaptured.Since then, Hunter has been moved to Alameda County, Calif., and is awaitingtrial in the Oakland murder case. The Orlando charges are still pending.Apart from confirming that Hunter impersonated Berry, authorities still knowlittle about the identity theft or who the mastermind was. As of early thissummer, they had not conducted an investigation, or filed any charges. Berry maynever find out how Hunter latched onto his Social Security number and driver'slicense. Or who was living in that bungalow on 12th Avenue. Or how many peoplewere filling out credit card applications in his name.Hunter is behind bars, but Berry is still wrestling with the mess made of hisfinances. One charge -- $ 462 to Pacific Bell -- has been particularlytroublesome. Before Berry could get the debt erased, it was sent to a collectionagency, a red flag on any credit report. An immediate casualty: Berry's ChaseMasterCard Platinum credit card. Even though it was Chase that had tipped Berryoff to the identity theft, the bank decided that he was somehow responsible forhis troubles. Viewed now as a credit risk, Berry was given a choice: Pay a muchhigher interest rate or close out the card. He closed it out.And while most of the fraudulent charges have been removed from two of hiscredit reports, the third remains marred by purchases he didn't make. Berrycontinues to fill out form after form to take care of the problem. Each saysessentially the same thing: that it was a thief and not Berry who made thecharges."I'm still dealing with the paperwork," Berry wrote in a recent e-mail. "It is atotal and complete nightmare, and completing the paperwork alone could easily bemy full-time job."He still carries around the letters he obtained from police in Oakland andOrlando, neatly folded in a black leather wallet. "Michael D. Berry is not thefelon fugitive that is being sought by several agencies," says the well-wornmissive from the Orlando police. "It is our intention to clear any confusion asto Mr. Berry's identity."The police have assured him that he doesn't need the letters anymore. Somehow,though, he can't bring himself to throw them away.To reduce the risk of falling victim to identity thieves, consider theserecommendations from the Federal Trade Commission and a nonprofit group calledthe Privacy Rights Clearinghouse:* Check your credit report once or twice a year. Unfamiliar or missingtransactions may signal trouble. You can order the reports for a small feeonline or over the telephone.* Use your Social Security number sparingly and do not carry it in your walletor purse. Never provide that number -- or other sensitive personal information-- to telephone callers or people online unless you initiated the contact.* Destroy credit card receipts to ensure a "Dumpster diver" doesn't find them.Also destroy unwanted offers of preapproved credit, which contain details thatmake life easier for identity thieves.* Close out unused or little-used credit card accounts.* If you suspect you have been victimized, immediately contact the top threecredit bureaus. They will mail out credit reports for free to people who believethey are victims, and they will place fraud alerts on the suspected victims'accounts. Equifax: 888-766-0008; Experian: 888-397-3742; Trans Union:800-680-7289.For more information on identity theft, go to www.consumer.gov/idtheft, theFTC's Web site; www.privacyrights.org/identity.htm, a site maintained by thePrivacy Rights Clearinghouse; or www.cdiaonline.org/consumers2.cfm, a sitecreated by the Consumer Data Industry Association, which represents the creditbureaus.  -- R.O.Robert O'Harrow Jr. is on leave from The Post to write a book on technology,surveillance and the war on terrorism, with support from the Center forInvestigative Reporting. He will be fielding questions and comments about thisarticle at 1 p.m. Monday on www.washingtonpost.com/liveonline.