Women tend to vote for Democrats. Men favor Republicans. That gender gap in U.S.politics is as old as the two parties themselves.But that generalization insults both genders and lets politicians off the hook.Rather than wait for the young to get old and the single to get married to gainnew supporters, the Republican Party can make up lost ground among the 53percent of voters who will decide this election: women.In the heated debate on abortion unleashed by Rep. Todd Akin's comments lastweekend, the gender gap has been cast as a Republican-Romney-Ryan problem withwomen. And it's true that the current double-digit lead that President Obamaenjoys among female voters in some national and statewide surveys is alarming.Yet it is not insurmountable. In fact, Obama has a big gender gap among men, whoseem way past buyer's remorse with him and headed to product recall.As the "war on women" rhetoric shows, Democrats seem to want to speak to womenonly from the waist down. To win, Republicans should call their bluff andaddress women from the waist up as well, especially their heads and hearts,where economic worries are key.The gender gap between Mitt Romney and Obama reflects a decades-old partisansplit between the sexes. But increasing numbers of men and women now callthemselves independents - 33 percent of women and 43 percent of men, accordingto the Pew Research Center. Some of them are swing voters, but nearly all ofthem are sick of politics and therefore, ironically, are persuadable voters.http://www.washingtonpost.com/politics/independents-favor-cooperation-are-dissatisfied-with-political-system/2012/08/20/3a96fcc2-e722-11e1-a3d2-2a05679928ef_story.html" title="www.washingtonpost.comFor more than 40 years, women have been the most reliablevoting bloc, outnumbering men at the ballot box. Both political parties havecruised to power in recent elections on the strength of the female vote. In2008, Obama got 56 percent of women's votes, an astonishing number for anon-incumbent. Two years later, women favored Republicans over Democrats forCongress, 49 percent to 48 percent, in what was widely seen as a rebuke of thefirst two years of the Obama administration.What women want from candidates could not be more clear. In a poll my firm justcompleted for Lifetime television with Democratic strategist Celinda Lake, 41percent of women said a candidate's position on the issues is the biggestdeciding factor when they vote. This trumped moral character (21 percent),background/experience (17 percent), record in elected office (9 percent),political party (6 percent) and spouse (2 percent).For five straight years, women have said the economy and jobs are top issues.Health care and education are important, too. Women were four times more likelyin 2010 than in 2008 to say government spending was a top concern. They prefercandidates who provide specific solutions on security - economic, job, national,personal, health - and affordability, which means meeting the costs of everydaylife and keeping their jobs, homes and savings intact.But you wouldn't know that by listening to politicians today. Abortion andcontraception, which do not appear in the top five most important issues towomen in anyone's polling, dominate the discussion. Unable to talk about arobust economy, solid employment numbers or long-term fiscal stability,Democrats plan to bet the house on the "war on women," giving a prominentspeaking spot to the president of Planned Parenthood at the party's conventionand screaming "women's health!" when what they really mean is abortion. They'resaying comparatively little about heart disease, obesity or cancer. They may beoverplaying their hand.This should mean that Republicans have an opening. To capitalize on it, Romneyand Paul Ryan should turn to metrics and big ideas. They love those things.Turns out, so do women.Just the facts, ma'am. Since Obama took office, the unemployment rate for womenhas increased from 7 percent to 8.1 percent, and the number of unemployed womenhas increased by 860,000, according to the Bureau of Labor Statistics. Housingvalues and net worths have decreased, while the cost of food and fuel hasincreased. The extreme poverty rate is one of the highest ever recorded amongwomen.Show them the (wasted) money. Billions of dollars for bailouts,stimulusand petprojects such as Solyndrahave led to a $16 trillion national debt. As many womenare scraping and sacrificing, they wonder why Washington can't do the same. Theclassic question "Are you better off now than you were four years ago?" is not aclose call. Add to it "Four more years of what?" and stir.Messengers matter. Seeing is the first step toward believing. And women trustpeople they like and who seem like them. Sarah Palin rocked the GOP conventionhall four years ago as the vice presidential nominee on this combination. Stopsaying you are a successful businessman and start further showcasing successfulbusinesswomen,  such as Richmond's Melissa Ball of Ball Office Products, whowould flourish and hire in a "Romneyconomy." Get rid of the "mom jeans" and putsome real moms on stage.Rattle the incumbent's complacency.One of Obama's advantages is that he isalready in the White House. Politically, female voters often stick with whatthey know, unless and until given a reason to change. Ronald Reagan, BillClinton and George W. Busheach increased their share of the female vote by sevenor eight percentage points from their first election. This formula would putObama at well over 60 percent, which seems implausible.Get out of the mosh pit. Negative advertising may work, but women think thenasty back-and-forth of who is the bigger liar is unbecoming of a leader. HoldObama to his (prophetic) words upon accepting his party's nomination in 2008:"If you don't have any fresh ideas, then you use stale tactics to scare thevoters. If you don't have a record to run on, then you paint your opponent assomeone people should run from."Be optimistic. Women gravitate toward candidates who seem pleasant and positive.With the exception of 1972, for 50 years women have favored the presidentialcontender they have seen as more optimistic. Obama cornered this market in 2008but now seems more gloom-and-doom than hope-and-change. Reagan was not simply agreat communicator, he was an affable and accessible one.Women are not single-issue thinkers or voters. They may like the president, butin 2012, math is a more important subject than chemistry. Obama himself saidthat if his administration did not turn around the economy in three years, he'dbe a one-term president. That's a promise we hope he keeps, because a politicalgender gap is nothing compared with a national prosperity gap.outlook@washpost.comKellyanne Conway, a Republican pollster, is the president of the Polling CompanyInc./WomanTrend. Follow her on Twitter @kellyannepolls.Read more from Outlook:Sen. Olympia Snowe on how the GOP can mend its image with womenHow the definition of rape has evolved over centuriesFriend us on Facebook and follow us on Twitter.