Somewhere deep in the nightscape of his own created world, the dark conspiracytheories became all too real for Art Bell. And so, angry, frightened, hunted,one of the country's most popular radio hosts simply walked away in Saturday'searly-morning hours.Bell, who hosted "Coast to Coast AM" overnights during the week (heard locallyfrom 1 to 5 a.m. on WWRC, 570-AM), built an audience of 10 million listeners onmore than 460 stations nationwide over a decade. The rich-voiced host delveddeeply into topics that at once unsettle and fascinate: UFOs, alien abduction,signs of the apocalypse and secret government projects.A cardinal rule of talk radio is: It's all entertainment. And though Bell wasoften impassioned about some topics, he never got so impassioned that heslandered anyone or threatened violence. Which is what has happened to Bell,says his lawyer, Gerard Fox of Los Angeles. And it is why, at 54, Bell isretiring from the air--again."In order that you all understand the gravity of the announcement I'm about tomake," Bell said at about 2 a.m. Eastern time on Saturday, "it's going to benecessary for me to repeat some very painful events that have occurred to myfamily over the past several years."Bell then recounted the saga that began in 1997 when his son, Art Bell IV, wasmolested by an HIV-positive male schoolteacher, now imprisoned for that andother sex and drug charges. The younger Bell is suing the ex-teacher and aNevada school district and routinely undergoes HIV tests. Now 19, he has thusfar tested negative, Fox says.Then, in December 1997, Ted Gunderson and David Hinkson--both of whom had haddealings with Bell--bought time on WWCR, a shortwave radio station in Nashville,and said Bell had molested children in his home state of Nevada and bribedpolice to cover it up.Since then, Fox says, the allegations have spread across the Internet and thefringe radio industry.The elder Bell is suing Gunderson, Hinkson and WWCR for slander. The defendantsin the elder Bell's suit have asked for a summary judgment, set for April 28 inNashville.The allegations, though untrue, Fox says, have prompted a handful of deaththreats against Bell over the past year and a half.Fox has received protective injunctions against some threat-makers and enlistedthe help of a family in tracking down one of its members who said he wanted to"drive to Nevada and kill Art Bell," Fox says.Bell quit his show for a time in late 1998, citing these reasons. He returned tothe air but soon decided to quit again--this time permanently, Fox says."He wants to be as private a person as possible," Fox says, adding that one ofthe occupational hazards of Bell's job has been "people who show up on hisdoorstep who think he can help them communicate with some alien race."Bell's listeners are left in the lurch. For the sleep-deprived, the paranoid andthe well-adjusted bulk of Bell's audience who simply loved his show for theentertainment value--myself included--there is no substitute.Bell's syndicator, Premiere Radio Networks in California, says that the showwill go on with a new host.If a radio personality had gone to a syndicator and pitched a show like Bell's,he would have been laughed out of the office. But Bell found the audience andplayed to them with remarkable success, broadcasting from his desert home studioin Nye County, Nev., or, as Bell called it, "the Kingdom of Nye." It's a shamethat some of the more unstable members of that audience didn't realize thatBell's show--like a hair-raising ghost story--was meant to be good fun.WGMS's Classical GaffeDennis Owens has hosted mornings on WGMS (103.5) for 20 years, wielding a witty,provocative, sometimes sarcastic style to anchor the city's most popularclassical station. Still, it seems an unlikely spot on the dial to findoffensive material.Yet, on St. Patrick's Day, some listeners did.Owens was running an Irish-themed show that day, and brought up Irish authorFrank McCourt's recent memoir, " 'Tis," which Owens lauded. McCourt hates thetraditional New York St. Patrick's Day parade, Owens reported, because it givesfolks an excuse to drink too much and behave stupidly, giving the impressionthat the Irish are dimwitted drunks. To illustrate the power of perception,Owens repeated a joke he'd heard:"What's three miles long and has an IQ of 40? The New York St. Patrick's DayParade."What followed was an object lesson in how things work in today's highly charged,media-savvy climate, where the politics of personal identity rule.WGMS received two e-mails and a couple of phone calls from offended listeners,reports station marketing director Steve Nicklin. In radio, that's not even ablip. Instead, other aggrieved parties called the Rev. Sean McManus of the IrishNational Caucus on Capitol Hill, beseeching: " 'Father McManus, what are yougoing to do about this?' " according to the priest."I explained to the [WGMS] people that I had to do something about this," saysMcManus. "People expect people like myself to protest this type of thing."McManus called the station Friday. Station managers talked with Owens andpromised McManus an on-air apology. On Monday, McManus issued a press release,demanding the apology he already knew was coming. The same day, WGMS issued itsown release, promising an apology from Owens the next day, which he made andMcManus says he accepts, though he did not tune in to hear it and had neverheard Owens's show.McManus doesn't believe that Irish Americans still face the same sort ofprejudice as African Americans do, he says. He adds, however, that he cannotaccept the "double standard" that tolerates an offensive joke against the Irishwhile condemning one against another minority group.But the whole matter is "very complicated," he says."For example, if Teddy Kennedy got up and told a joke about the Irish and it wassort of [a] put-down, well, I think he might be able to get away with it," saysMcManus.As for Owens, 65, he received no disciplinary action from WGMS and says he was"pulled up short" by the controversy. In his apology, he said: "I'd like topause here for a moment this morning to correct a grave error I made on-air lastFriday during our celebration of the Irish national holiday."Owens was born in London, where he lived until age 16. His family emigrated toCanada, and he worked on the air in Bermuda and Europe before coming to WGMS.And, he points out, he is Irish on his mother's side--his mother's father was anIrish cop in Wales who took a bullet.Still, he says, the St. Patrick's Day incident chastened him."Everybody in entertainment seeks approval and I'm not looking to upset anyone,"Owens says. The incident "reminded me to stay as careful as you can. I think youshould be responsibly funny and responsibly entertaining."Today is the day to talk about radio with The Listener. Log on to www.washingtonpost.com/liveonline/ at 1 p.m.CORRECTION-DATE: April 5, 2000CORRECTION:An April 4 Style section article incorrectly reported a sequence of eventsinvolving the Rev. Sean McManus, president of the Irish National Caucus, andradio station WGMS. When McManus publicly demanded an apology for on-airstatements, he did not know that one was already forthcoming.