About Roger Goodell's raised consciousness. About the NFL commissioner'sseemingly unbidden turnabout on the subject of domestic violence, hisuncharacteristic admission that he "didn't get it right" when he suspendedex-Baltimore Ravens running back Ray Rice only two games for socking his fianceeunconscious, while throwing the book at marijuana tokers. About the curioustiming of Goodell's much-congratulated epiphany, and the Ravens' sudden moraloutrage, and the appearance of that stomach heave-inducing elevator video onTMZ, in which Rice decks his bride-to-be so hard she drops like a piece of lostluggage from an airplane bay.The Ravens promptly terminated Rice's contract on Monday and Goodell, ever inpursuit of a stainless suit-coat, reopened the case and suspended Riceindefinitely under his revised policy on domestic assault, given this graphic"new" evidence. But really, what did Goodell and the Ravens think a professionalfootball player knocking his wife unconscious looked like?That Goodell is an unduly vain commissioner, and a self-serving one with his eyeon some further prize, has always been obvious. That he obfuscates and evades ontough issues unless they are convenient for him, that his convictions are highlyselective and so is his enforcement, has never been more apparent. On Mondaymorning, with the surfacing of that video, Goodell's nature became totallyclear. The NFL claims in a statement that no one in the league office hadpreviously seen the tape. That is almost surely not the truth, unless the NFLwanted it that way. This is a league that works with Homeland Security, conferswith the Drug Enforcement Agency, collaborates with law enforcement and has itsown highly equipped and secretive private security arm. You're telling me itcouldn't get a hold of a grainy tape from an Atlantic City casino elevator? ButTMZ could?If NFL executives and Baltimore Ravens staff had never seen that tape before,there are only two reasons: willful blindness, and the determination to maintainplausible deniability. Two NFL analysts with reputations for impeccable sources,Peter King of Sports Illustrated and Chris Mortensen of ESPN, were told monthsago the league had to have seen the tape. Ray Rice's own attorney had a copy ofit. It simply defies belief that league and team officials couldn't have seen itif they wanted to.All the tape does is put the full lie to the specious reasons the NFL and theRavens offered for being lenient on Rice - he was defending himself, there wereextenuating circumstances, he felt terrible about the incident. And of course,the woman partly had it coming. "Janay Rice says she deeply regrets the rolethat she played the night of the incident," the Ravens tweeted.All of it is belied by the tape. The young woman is clearly having a disputewith her  fiance. They argue, he snaps at her, she swats a hand at him. They geton the elevator, they argue more, she says something and moves toward him - andhe drops her, bam. And then stands over her for a moment, and lugs her out ofthe elevator like he's hauling a sack of cement.Did Goodell and so many others in the NFL really need to see the tape beforethey were properly horrified? It's impossible to reread the letter Goodell sentto NFL team owners describing his change of heart on domestic violence on Aug.28 with anything but a rueful, bitter hilarity. "The reality is that domesticviolence and sexual assault are often hidden crimes, ones that areunder-reported and under-acknowledged," Goodell wrote. You bet they are,especially if the videotape is buried.Goodell went on: "My disciplinary decision led the public to question oursincerity, our commitment, and whether we understood the toll that domesticviolence inflicts on so many families."On Monday, Goodell's audience found itself in the position of questioning thesincerity of his apology for behaving in a way that led to his sincerity beingquestioned. For years now, NFL players have questioned his sincerity on issueslike concussions, player safety, discipline and drug testing. With the Ricescandal, the full football viewing public will likely now view Goodell throughthe same skeptical lens.sally.jenkins@washpost.comFor more by Sally Jenkins, visit washingtonpost.com/jenkins.