Ryan Reed Kaufman was 4 years old, unwanted by a mother who smoked crack whileshe was pregnant, living with a foster family who pacified him with NyQuil everynight at bedtime. He had no reason to expect that the grown-ups who came tovisit him one day at child protective services might take him home with them.But he knew enough to try. When they handed him a coloring book, he stayedwithin the lines as best as he could. When they gave him a box of Legos, heasked to build a house. When it was done, he placed a toy boy inside it and thenasked, "Who will take care of the little boy?"Ryan recalls that moment only vaguely, but he's heard the story since thatmeeting in 1992, back when the term "crack baby" was used to describe childrensuch as him and experts predicted that children born to addiction would become abiological underclass, super-predators who would cause the crime rate to surge,a lost generation.John Silber, then president of Boston University, spoke of "crack babies whowon't ever achieve the intellectual development to have consciousness of God.""Theirs will be a life of certain suffering, of probable deviance, of permanentinferiority," Washington Post columnist Charles Krauthammer said in 1989.They were written off even before they could talk. But in the two decades thathave passed since crack dominated drug markets in the District and across thenation, these babies have grown into young adults who can tell their stories --and for the most part, they are tales of success.Many of the crack-exposed infants ended up as boarder babies, abandoned at thehospital by parents who couldn't care for them. Some have been troubledthroughout their lives. But national crime rates, predicted to soar when thechildren came of age, have instead dropped to record lows. Despite decades ofresearch, it can be hard to parse whether children born to crack-addictedmothers have struggled because of early exposure to drugs, troubled upbringingsor simple teenage defiance.It was at the height of the crack epidemic that a little girl named Marika cameto live with Eunice Boone. Her Capitol Heights house was known as the "rejecthome," because she would take the children no one else wanted. After Marika wasborn, Boone said, the girl's biological mother told a social worker: "Didn't Itell you to let that [expletive] die?"Doctors determined that Marika, born with cocaine and other drugs in her system,had cerebral palsy, which Boone thinks is related to her mother's drug use. Shewas not expected to live past the age of 5. This June, she will graduate fromhigh school, and in August, she will turn 21. She cannot talk or walk on herown, but she loves music, coloring and wrestling."She's doing beautiful," said Boone, who has two biological children and adoptedsix others in addition to Marika. "With these children that are on crack, or anykind of drug, I think there's hope for them. It just takes time and patience."A federal study found that about 22,000 babies were left at hospitals in 1991 byparents unwilling or unable to care for them. Washington had the third-highestnumber of any U.S. city."We called it a crisis because the space was just filling up in the nursery,"said Linda Ivey Lewis, who as an administrator at D.C. General Hospital wasinstrumental in opening the boarder baby nursery, where volunteers could come into hold the infants. "Worst case for me was for them to not be humanized."Many were born prematurely. Some had serious illnesses, including HIV. But Lewisand others believed that many of the babies needed only a good home to make upfor a slow start on life.The pendulum swingsBarry Lester, a psychologist at Brown University who leads the largest federalstudy of children with prenatal cocaine exposure, said a lot of misinformationsurfaced in the late 1980s and early 1990s, including that these children hadsuffered severe brain damage. Then came a period in which studies seemed to saythe opposite, that there were no effects from early cocaine exposure."Now what you are seeing is the pendulum is swinging back to the middle, whereit belongs," Lester said. "People are convinced that cocaine doesn't causesevere damage, but I also think they are beginning to realize that it does haveimportant effects."Early exposure to the drug has been shown to make children more impulsive anddiminish executive function, affecting the part of the brain responsible forplanning and inhibition, Lester said. "They may not have the bells going off intheir heads saying, 'I know you want to do that, but don't do that.' "Several women contacted for this article acknowledged using crack while pregnantbut declined to speak publicly about their experience for fear of causing theirchildren fresh pain. "The one I used crack with has graduated and nowrelocated," one woman wrote in an e-mail. "She is employed and has escaped thedrama that I have placed on her life!"Similarly, nearly 100 calls to health and faith professionals elicited manyreminders of the powerful stigma still attached to the label "crack baby."Leonard Sipes, a spokesman for the D.C. Court Services and Offender SupervisionAgency, has found ex-offenders to be willing to talk to reporters about childabuse and sexual assault. "But this seems to be more sensitive," he said. "Noone wants to criticize Mom."Sipes, who has worked for the justice system for 40 years, recalled thepredictions that crack babies would become "super-predators.""We were warned over and over and over that this was our fate," he said.Instead, the national violent crime rate in 2008, the last year for which dataare available, hit its lowest level since 1972, when the Bureau of JusticeStatistics began its annual survey. According to FBI data for the District, from1990 to 2008, murders dropped from 472 to 186, rapes from 303 to 186, androbberies from 7,365 to 4,154."The super-predator did not surface," Sipes said.What did happen to those babies? Researchers caution that there is no singleanswer. Genetics, the birth mother's other habits, prenatal health care and homeenvironment play a role."People are looking for a single statement: 'Cocaine does this,' or  'Cocainedoes that.' It's just not that simple," Lester said. He often gets calls fromparents considering adopting cocaine- or methamphetamine-exposed children. "WhatI almost invariably wind up telling them is, 'As far as we know, a goodenvironment can make up for some, if not all, of the deficits that are caused bythe drug, although it's no guarantee.' "'I saw some light'After 5 1/2  months of life, the only home Jeffrey had known was the boarderbaby nursery at D.C. General, and that's where Debbie Anzelone first saw him in1990. As director of the hospital's infant development program, she wasassessing the children's needs when a nurse made a joke."She said, 'Oh, Jeff, you should smile real pretty for this lady -- she'd make agreat mama for you,' " Anzelone recalled.Within weeks, she would tell her husband, Mike, that she was in love with thischild she'd seen only 10 times. Not long after, they brought Jeff home. In 1993,they officially adopted him and he took their last name.They gave little thought to his history: His mother, who was in prison when hewas born, had abused crack and heroin while carrying him. "A couple of ourfriends were like, 'Are you sure you guys know what you are doing?' " Debbiesaid in an interview at the family's Beltsville home. "I was just like: 'He'sjust a baby. Give me a break. Whatever will be will be.' "Jeff first learned his history when he was in middle school. After Debbie readstudies finding that children exposed to drugs early in life were more likely tofall into addiction, she decided to tell Jeff before he experimented with drugs."I was kind of waiting for a time when I felt like he had developed enoughself-confidence that he wouldn't say, 'I'm this drug baby,' " she said.Jeff said it never occurred to him to think that way. "I was part of thisfamily," he said. "We've always been a Christian family, and so I realized Godhad a plan."The only condition Jeff thinks might stem from his biological mother's drug useis attention deficit hyperactivity disorder, which he has controlled withmedication since second grade. Lester recently reported findings at a conferenceshowing that children with prenatal cocaine exposure were more likely to havebehavior disorders, including ADHD."Honestly, I had the perception that crack babies were born messed up, that theywent through their life having problems," said Jeff, who was a B student in highschool, played sports and has worked part time since he was 14. He works atStarbucks and attends Howard Community College, aiming for a degree inaccounting. "I don't see other kids doing things that I don't see myself capableof doing."Researchers say the hysteria that surrounded crack-exposed babies teacheslessons on how to deal with the increasing number of children being born withprenatal exposure to methamphetamine. "We think everyone has learned fromlooking at the cocaine-exposed kids not to get in an uproar before we havedata," said Nicolette Borek of the National Institute on Drug Abuse, whichoversees 15 studies of children exposed to cocaine before birth.Many of those babies were born prematurely, with low birth weights and unusuallysmall heads, but overall, they are "doing a lot better than we thought," shesaid. "One of the messages of this is really how resilient children are and thebrain is. Your exposure does not doom you."Blaming no oneRyan remembers the foster home where he lived when he met the two women whoeventually adopted him -- Linda Kaufman and Melinda Reed -- as a place where theother children took half his Legos and tore his book, where beatings were doledout regularly."It was bad," said Ryan, 22. "If I had stayed there, I would definitely have hada lot more anger problems than I already do. For the longest time, I didn't letanyone touch me, and I definitely didn't put up with people."When the women met Ryan, they were struck by a cute child trying hard to beperfect. They had been told his history: born at Washington Hospital Center withcrack and heroin in his system, taken into city custody at 11 months with afractured skull, in and out of several foster homes.They were handed photos of other children but quickly decided on Ryan. "I justsaw some light, a different kind of light in his eyes," Reed said. His newparents read Ryan bedtime stories, baked cookies, made snow angels.Ryan, whose ADHD was diagnosed early on, jumped off a table and kicked a teacherin nursery school. As a teenager, "if he wanted something and didn't get it,he'd explode," Kaufman said. As an adult, he's been in trouble with the law andis serving time in Arlington County's detention center on charges of grandlarceny, driving under the influence and assaulting a police officer."You hope and you pray and you say, 'I love you' a lot," Kaufman said. But shesometimes questioned whether her parenting skills were good enough to counterhis rough start.Even in jail, the charm of that 4-year-old playing with Legos comes through.He's handsome, sharing the high cheekbones and almond eyes of his biologicalmother, whom he last saw when he was a toddler. At 18, he had her name tattooedover his heart, and he keeps her prom picture with him. He doesn't resent her."She gave me life," he said.He acknowledges his mistakes and doesn't blame anyone or anything else -- nothis biological mother's drug use, not his years in foster homes, not hisadoptive mothers, whom he didn't always agree with but said had his bestinterests in mind. He said he alone is responsible for his decision to drink, anaddiction he's being treated for.Ryan has worked two jobs since he was old enough to get one. And when he isreleased in five months, he plans to become certified in heating and airconditioning repair. Eventually, he wants to open a clothing shop."I wouldn't change anything about myself," Ryan said. "I wouldn't changeanything about my past. I wouldn't even change me sitting in jail right now.They all made me who I am."He's confident that he'll find success, which he recently told his adoptiveparents wouldn't have been a possibility if they hadn't taken him home."I really think if I stayed in that situation," Ryan said, "I most likelywouldn't have cared if I lived or died."Staff researcher Meg Smith contributed to this report.