They are a small society, bound by tragedy.When a child goes missing, few people can fathom the awful wait, the filling inof blanks, the nightmares. There aren't many who can relate to the horror thatHannah Graham's family is living now.The Harringtons can, and they reached out to offer companionship - if notcomfort, because there is no such thing as comfort here - to the parents of the18-year-old University of Virginia sophomore who vanished Sept. 13."There are no Hallmark cards for missing. Missing is tough," said GilHarrington, who spent three horrific months in "missing" hell only to have itreplaced with something different - a new pain - once the body of her20-year-old daughter, Morgan Harrington, was found in a Virginia field fiveyears ago.The Harringtons, who exist in a constant state of mourning, mending, advocatingand wondering, immediately recognized their own anguish when they saw theGrahams on television, pleading for the public's help in finding their daughter."You look at their faces and see the broken look. You know that look, thatfeeling," said Gil Harrington, who runs a foundation called Help Save the NextGirl. "I remember what it was like when it was one week old. When it was twoweeks old."Then they learned that their ties could be deeper than a shared emotion, ashared experience.Graham, who'd been out with friends, was last seen with Jesse L. "L.J." MatthewJr. near a Charlottesville restaurant. Police arrested Matthew, 32, in Texas andcharged him with kidnapping with intent to defile. And then they acknowledgedthat his arrest provided a forensic link to Harrington's death. Harrington was astudent at Virginia Tech when she left a Metallica concert at U-Va. on Oct. 17,2009. She was found dead three months later.Matthew has not been charged in connection with her death, but the informationhas the Harringtons reliving all of it.When the Harringtons' daughter disappeared, the mother of Chandra Levy, aWashington intern who was missing for a year before her remains were found inRock Creek Park in 2002, reached out to them. Last summer, the Harringtons didthe same for the family of Alexis Murphy, who was 17 when she was last seen at agas station near Lynchburg. Her body has not been found, but Randy Taylor, 49,was convicted of murdering her.All these families understand one another in a way the rest of the world simplycan't. "I think that great tragedy catapults you from your great differences toyour shared humanity," Gil Harrington said. She tries to stay focused on campussafety for women, especially during the first few months of school, when herdaughter and Graham disappeared, when students newly on their own are off-kilterand vulnerable.We now know that Matthew was accused of sexual assault at two colleges, in 2002and 2003. Both times, at Liberty University in Lynchburg and then at ChristopherNewport University in Newport News, police investigated, but neither incidentled to a criminal case.The alleged 2002 rape at Liberty was on Oct. 17, the same date Harrington waslast seen alive. The Christopher Newport case was in September, the same monthas Graham's disappearance. Police also said they have DNA evidence linkingHarrington's death with the abduction and rape of a 26-year-old woman whoescaped from her kidnapper in Northern Virginia on Sept. 24, 2005.If this is all the work of one person, he could be a back-to-school killer, GilHarrington said.The Graham case brings into sharper focus the crisis of sexual assault atAmerican colleges. Too often, the same person is accused of assault multipletimes. And if a predator moves around, it can be hard to track him.For the Harringtons, the work of their foundation feels more crucial than ever.Their mission will be to try to save the next girl - after Hannah.petula.dvorak@washpost.comTwitter: @petuladï...OE For previous columns, go to washingtonpost.com/dvorak.