All dates are subject to change. For an online guide to the season's bigpictures, go tohttp://www.washingtonpost.com/holidaymovies.DEC. 12THE PERFECT HOLIDAYThe cast: Gabrielle Union, Morris Chestnut, Queen Latifah,  Charles Q. Murphy,Terrence Howard and Katt Williams.The story: A lonely single mother (Union) of three becomes romantically involvedwith a department store Santa Claus and part-time sales clerk (Chestnut).The buzz: The always-luminous Union and a generous sprinkling of sassy humor(especially from Williams) should crack some needed pepper over this familiarholiday cheese.DEC. 14ALVIN AND THE CHIPMUNKSThe cast: Jason Lee and the voices of Ross Bagdasarian Jr. and Janice Karman.The story: Singing chipmunks Alvin, Simon and Theodore have more lives than theproverbial cat: First they were the high-pitched voices on a 1958 noveltyrecord,  then cartoon characters in several TV shows in the next few decades.Now they're computer-generated creations  in this animated/live-action feature.The buzz: The chipmunk recognition factor -- the last show was in the 1980s --ain't gonna be enough. In computer animation's fiercely competitive world,audiences will be looking for a great story, smart humor and cutting-edgevisuals.DEC. 14-25HOLIDAY CLASSICSThree holiday chestnuts -- 1992's "The Muppet Christmas Carol," 1983'sMidwest-set yuletide memoir "A Christmas Story" and Frank Capra's 1946 "It's aWonderful Life" -- will be shown at the AFI Silver Theatre (8633 Colesville Rd.,Silver Spring) at various times. 301-495-6720. http://www.afi.com/silver. $9.25.DEC. 14I AM LEGENDThe cast: Will Smith, Alice Braga and Dash Mihok.The story: Scientist Robert Neville (Smith) is the last man on Earth -- theresult of a deadly virus that has killed everyone. Or is he alone? A new speciesof infected mutants roams the planet, and Robert's immune blood is their onlypossible cure.The buzz: An intriguing story (based on the Richard Matheson novel), coolpost-apocalyptic computer effects and a charismatic star should count forsomething. And Smith's previous sci-"I" project ("I, Robot") grossed $145million nationwide. Sounds like a good omen.JUNOThe cast: Ellen Page, Jennifer Garner, Jason Bateman, Michael Cera, J.K. Simmonsand Allison Janney.The story: When whip-smart teenager Juno (Page) gets pregnant and decides togive the baby up for adoption, she becomes a little too involved with thesurrogate parents-to-be (Bateman and Garner).The buzz: Buzz is spectacular on this one: "Napoleon Dynamite" with a pregnancytest kit. A huge festival favorite and a starmaking debut for itsblogger-turned-screenwriter, Diablo Cody.THE KITE RUNNERThe cast: Khalid Abdalla, Homayon Ershadi, Zekeria Ebrahimi, Ahmad KhanMahmidzada and Atossa Leoni.The story: Based on Khaled Hosseini's bestseller, the film follows the bittercourse of a young Afghan boy whose failure to intervene in a traumatic eventhaunts him into adulthood. Years after exile from his home country, he returnsto make amends.The buzz: Critical word is strong, and audiences -- if they invest in a storywith foreign characters, intense themes and subtitles -- should connect withthis emotional film.OUTSOURCEDThe cast: Josh Hamilton, Asif Basra, Ayesha Dharker, Matt Smith and Larry Pine.The story: Sent to India to train the new employees of a call center, includingthe manager who will replace him, the resentful Todd (Hamilton) begins toappreciate the local culture. And a woman named Asha (Dharker).The buzz:  Critical word has been positive on this genial crowd-pleaser. Thesubject matter couldn't be more topical: Just who are we talking to when we makethose directory inquiries?THE ROCKETThe cast: Roy Dupuis, Stephen McHattie and Julie LeBreton.The story: Based on a true story, this film follows the hard times of Maurice"The Rocket" Richard, the iconic French Canadian hockey hero of the 1940s and'50s who was the first player to net 50 goals in 50 games.The buzz: This movie, showing exclusively at the Avalon Theatre, isn't just ahockey underdog story. It's about the way French Canadians were treated duringthat era.STARTING OUT IN THE EVENINGThe cast: Frank Langella, Lauren Ambrose, Lili Taylor and Adrian Lester.The story: A retired, all but obsolete author (Langella) finds his world turnedupside down when a graduate student (Ambrose), seeking to interview him for athesis project, clearly has something more than literary chatter on her mind.The buzz: With strong reviews for its themes of art and repressed desires, thisfilm could touch art-house audiences.THE WALKERThe cast: Woody Harrelson, Kristin Scott Thomas, Lily Tomlin, Lauren Bacall,Willem Dafoe and Moritz Bleibtreu.The story: Carter (Harrelson) is a paid, nonsexual escort for the wives ofWashington senators and other players, spending hours with them at cocktailgatherings and canasta parties. But when he protects a senator's wife frombecoming embroiled in a murder investigation, he becomes a suspect.The buzz:     Writer-director Paul Schrader's film is the last in a  quartet ofhis "night worker" films that also features "Taxi Driver," "American Gigolo" and"Light Sleeper."  "The Walker" has received mixed reviews in England, where ithas already been released, but Harrelson's performance has been lauded.DEC. 15-30ROMANIAN FILM SERIESAt the National Gallery of Art (Fourth Street and Constitution Avenue NW), afree series continues with works by such contemporary Romanian filmmakers asCorneliu Porum-boiu, Cristian Nemescu, Catalin Mitulescu, Cristi Puiu andCristian Mungiu, whose "4 Months, 3 Weeks and 2 Days" won the Palme d'Or at thisyear's Cannes Film Festival. The programs are shown Dec. 15, 16, 23, 29 and 30.202-737-4215. http://www.nga.gov/programs/film.DEC. 17SING, COWBOY, SINGAt 6:30 at the Goethe-Institut (812 Seventh St. NW), as part of its series onAmerican expatriate director Dean Reed, a.k.a. "the Red Elvis," this campy 1981western chronicles the story of two cowboys (Reed and Václav Neckár) who earntheir keep as a singing duo and with odd jobs. $6. 202-289-1200.http://www.goethe.de/washington.DEC. 21CHARLIE WILSON'S WARThe cast: Tom Hanks, Julia Roberts, Philip Seymour Hoffman and Amy Adams.The story: In the early 1980s, congressman Charlie Wilson (Hanks), a key memberof the powerful House Appropriations Committee, essentially runs a private warin Afghanistan, by arming the mujaheddin against the Soviet invaders. Hisspecial team includes a wealthy Houston socialite (Roberts) and a rogue CIAoperative (Hoffman).The buzz: Directed by Mike Nichols, this politically timely adaptation (writtenby Aaron Sorkin) of George Crile's nonfiction bestseller exudes the satiricalhumor of Nichols's 1970 antiwar film, "Catch-22," and 1998's Clintonesque romp,"Primary Colors."THE DIVING BELL AND THE BUTTERFLYThe cast: Mathieu Amalric, Emmanuelle Seigner, Marie-Josée Croze, Max von Sydowand Isaach De Bankolé.The story: A fashion magazine editor (Amalric) in Paris wakes up to discover hehas had a stroke, rendering him paralyzed except for his ability to blink.Fighting his way back to some kind of physical control with the help of acommitted staff at his medical center, he dictates a book about his painful roadto recovery.The buzz: The subject matter (it's based on the true story of Elle magazineeditor Jean-Dominique Bauby) may seem too depressing to watch in any moviegoingseason, but this "My Left Eye" will connect with audiences looking for anemotionally powerful experience.NATIONAL TREASURE:BOOK OF SECRETSThe cast: Nicolas Cage, Diane Kruger, Jon Voight, Helen Mirren, Harvey Keiteland Ed Harris.The story: When missing pages surface from John Wilkes Booth's diary, treasurehunter Benjamin Franklin Gates (Cage) has some investigating to do. It leads himto a special book read only by presidents.The buzz: Don't go searching for anything but more of the same. Disney grossed$173 million with 2004's  first "National Treasure." No reason to fix somethingthat didn't go broke.PROTAGONISTThe cast: (As themselves) Hans-Joachim Klein, Mark Pierpont, Mark Salzman andJoe Loya.The story: Jessica Yu's unorthodox documentary uses hand-carved wooden puppetsand the structure of Greek playwright Euripides to recount the true stories offour people: a former German terrorist, a bank robber, an evangelist who used tobe gay and a martial arts student.The buzz:  Yu's film was a critical success at the Sundance Film Festival thisyear for its innovative techniques; it's surely a strong bet for art-housesuccess.P.S. I LOVE YOUThe cast: Hilary Swank, Gerard Butler, Lisa Kudrow, Harry Connick Jr., GinaGershon and Kathy Bates.The story: After her Irish musician husband (Butler) dies, Holly (Swank)discovers he has left her a cache of letters with step-by-step instructions totake up the adventurous life she has always wanted. By following his directions,in 10 months, Holly carves herself a bright future.The buzz: Previews make this look like primo hokum. And Swank's no-nonsenseintensity and angularity don't exactly spell "romantic leading lady." But shehas a way of ingratiating herself to audiences even in such trite movies as"Freedom Writers."THE SAVAGESThe cast: Laura Linney, Philip Seymour Hoffman and Philip Bosco.The story: Jon (Hoffman) and his sister, Wendy (Linney), are too caught up intheir own endeavors (he's a drama teacher; she's a playwright) to deal with anornery and suddenly demented father (Bosco) who needs a nursing home. But  thesiblings work together and find new fulfillment in caring for their own.The buzz:  Positive critical response to this movie may not persuade the kids towatch a chamber piece with three characters well past 30. But it's certain totrigger nominations for at least one of the performances; Bosco's portrayal ofsomeone with dementia is spot-on.SWEENEY TODD:THE DEMON BARBER OF FLEET STREETThe cast: Johnny Depp, Helena Bonham Carter, Alan Rickman, Timothy Spall andSacha Baron Cohen.The story: A barber (Depp) in London becomes vengeful after losing his wife anddaughter and going to prison on false charges. Reopening his barbershop, hewields his razors with an entirely different purpose.The buzz: Movies based on popular musicals, such as "Dreamgirls" and "Chicago,"have been successful at the box office. So have gruesome horror films, and"Sweeney Todd" -- directed by Tim Burton -- is basically a slasher flick withtheatrical sets, costumes and singing. Add Depp to that package, and you have tolike this movie's chances.WALK HARD: THE DEWEY COX STORYThe cast: John C. Reilly, Jenna Fischer, with cameos from Paul Rudd, JasonSchwartzman, Jack White  and others.The story: In this parody of musician biopics, particularly "Walk the Line,"country singer Dewey Cox (Reilly) becomes an icon as he womanizes, struggleswith drug addiction and tries to maintain a relationship with backup singerDarlene (Fischer).The buzz: A big test of "Dewey" screenwriter Judd Apatow's Midas touch. He hasreaped good box office numbers for  comedies "Knocked Up" ($149 million) and"The 40-Year-Old Virgin" ($109 million). Can he do it again with 40-somethingcharacter actor Reilly as the main interest?DEC. 22THE STRANGE MADAME XAt 2:30, the National Gallery of Art (Fourth Street and Constitution Avenue NW)screens a restored print of Jean Grémillon's 1951 film, which follows Irène(Michèle Morgan), who leads a lover's double life with a wealthy publisher anda naive cabinetmaker. Film critic Jay Carr introduces the free screening.202-737-4215. http://www.nga.gov/programs/film.DEC. 23, 27, 28FULLY AWAKE:BLACK MOUNTAIN COLLEGEScreening free at the National Gallery of Art (Fourth Street and ConstitutionAvenue NW), this 53-minute documentary combines archival photographs andinterviews to focus on the progressive North Carolina college's influential rolein the development of American art of the 20th century. 202-737-4215.http://www.nga.gov/programs/film.DEC. 25ALIEN VS. PREDATOR: REQUIEMThe cast: John Ortiz, Ian Whyte, Steven Pasquale and Reiko Aylesworth.The story: In a continuation of 2004's "Alien vs. Predator," a crashed Predatorscout ship causes panic in a Colorado town as a war breaks out between thevessel's Alien prisoners and one surviving Predator.The buzz: This looks like one for hard-core fans only.THE GREAT DEBATERSThe cast: Denzel Washington, Forest Whitaker and Kimberly Elise.The story: In the 1930s, an unconventional college professor (Washington)creates a debating team at a small black college and competes against the likesof Harvard in a national competition.The buzz: The movie, directed by Washington, is based on the true story ofProfessor Melvin Tolson, who took his wily college debating team to thenationals to face Harvard.THE WATER HORSE:LEGEND OF THE DEEPThe cast: Alex Etel, Emily Watson, David Morrissey, Ben Chaplin and Brian Cox.The story: When a Scottish lad named Angus (Etel) discovers a strange egg, ithatches and produces a mythical "water horse" of Scottish legend. As thedragonlike creature grows larger, Angus is forced to keep it concealed in --where else? -- Loch Ness.The buzz:  Made by the special-effects team that created "The Lord of the Rings"effects and by Walden Media, the production company that made "The Chronicles ofNarnia: The Lion, the Witch and the Wardrobe," this movie will thrill youngaudiences with spectacle. Etel was the little charmer in Danny Boyle's 2004"Millions."DEC. 28MONGOLThe cast: Tadanobu Asano, Honglei Sun,  Khulan Chuluun and Odnyam Odsuren.The story: Set in the 13th century, this film is about the early life of GenghisKhan, known as Temudjin, who underwent starvation and even slavery before heconquered half the known world.The buzz: The movie, which was filmed in China, is Kazakhstan's officialsubmission for the 2008 Academy Awards.SOMETIME IN DECEMBERMY KID COULD PAINT THATThe cast: Laura Olmstead, Mark Olmstead and Marla Olmstead.The story: A documentary about 4-year-old Marla Olmstead, the child artist whosepaintings were valued as high-price art, until a "60 Minutes" exposé suggestedthat her father was doctoring the paintings himself.The buzz: Director Amir Bar-Lev leaves it to audiences to make their owndecisions as to the truth of the matter.NANKINGThe cast: Narrators Woody Harrelson, Stephen Dorff, Mariel Hemingway and others.The story: Using news clips and other historical records, this documentaryrecounts the Japanese Imperial Army's invasion of Nanking in December 1937 andits widespread looting, rapes and executions of Chinese citizens that resultedin hundreds of thousands of deaths. The film also chronicles the efforts of adozen Westerners, including a Nazi businessman, to save more than 200,000Chinese from Japanese hands.The buzz: The film is the brainchild of AOL  Vice Chairman Ted Leonsis, whofinanced and bankrolled the $2 million film. It's based on Iris Chang's 1997book "The Rape of Nanking."CORRECTION-DATE: December 13, 2007CORRECTION:· A Dec. 7 Weekend article listed the incorrect release date for the movie"Mongol." It is scheduled to open June 6.