These have nothing to do with weddings, I promise.Carolyn:I am engaged to a wonderful man and we're getting married next August. Theproblem is that one of my cousins (who will not be at the wedding) sexuallyabused me as a child, and his mother knew about it and didn't do anything. Itold my fiance about this and he does not want my aunt to be at the wedding. Heis extremely angry with her, and my cousin of course, and he doesn't want heranywhere near him. I have to talk to my mother about it, since it's her sisterand my mother doesn't know anything about the abuse. How am I supposed to dealwith this? I don't want there to be a huge scene at the wedding, but I don'twant to tear my family apart either.And there's another person I don't want to invite to the wedding, my (ex-) bestfriend. Problem: I already (stupidly) asked her to be my maid of honor. Thereason I don't want her to be there is that she does NOT approve of my fiance atall and she has no basis for that opinion. How can I tactfully tell her I'vechanged my mind? Is that even possible?-- E.At the risk of becoming your (ex-) advice columnist, I have my issues with yourfiance, too.And with what this question is really about, but fiance first. He wasn't abused,you were. That means it is absolutely, without a doubt, indisputably not hisplace to dictate how you will respond to it. The reason is obvious from yourquestion. By taking your pain and making it about him, about his needs -- "HEdoesn't want her anywhere near HIM"? (snotty emphasis added) -- he has now putyou in an extremely awkward spot with your mom. How, exactly, does this helpyou?Your cousin molested you, which means he did things to you against your will,which means he took away your sense of control over your emotional and physicalself. He made you a victim. The antidote to that is to reclaim and then maintaina sense of power over these two things and, now that you're an adult, yoursexuality as well.By laying down the law on whom to punish for your suffering, your fiance maythink he's your hero but he's really just controlling you, which completelyundermines your most fundamental need with regard to your past. From where Isit, it also closely and distressingly mirrors the abuser-victim powerimbalance.This brings us to the advice portion of our program, and it's going to smack ofsome disrespect of its own for your wishes by having nothing to do with youractual question. I apologize for that. But your mother's not knowing of theabuse, on top of your choosing the (pause to clear throat)rather-quite-possibly-controlling fiance, tells me there are at least some majorelements of this childhood abuse that you still need to address.Please, before you swap vows with anybody, explore all these issues incounseling -- including the aunt implications. The National Domestic ViolenceHotline, 800-799-SAFE, and the Rape, Abuse & Incest National Network (RAINN),800-656-HOPE, are loaded with resources for you.You had two questions . . . so here's the non-answer to the second. Whether your(ex-) best friend disapproves of your fiance because she hears the same alarmbells I do, or whether she hates him just because she can't look at thatdistracting little skin-thing on his chin, I can't possibly know. But as a firmbeliever in 2 plus 2 equaling 4, I hope you'll sit down with your friend andrevisit this difficult subject. She just might be the best friend you've everhad.Dear Carolyn:I've agreed to be a bridesmaid for my longtime friend from college. Was excited,but I'm now having reservations.I think I have unresolved issues about this being a one-sided friendship andthey've been boiling over because of her behavior in the last few months. Coldphone conversations, can't fit me into her schedule until the wedding, even if Icome up to visit, etc. I reset my own wedding date so that she could make itback from a vacation to be there! I want out of this wedding, but I don't wantto do it out of spite or to cause a scene.What do I do?-- Please Please Answer!Translation: "How can I get out of this and not feel uncomfortable or generateill will or lose her even though I don't really like her anymore or suffer anyother icky consequences?"Summon the worst-case scenario . . . and compare it with what you've got now . .. and ask yourself why confrontation's so bad.Say it, say it, say it. (About the friendship, not the bridesmaid thing. That'sjust fabric.)If she hates you for feeling left out, then why would you want to be in?Write to Tell Me About It, Style Plus, 1150 15th St. NW, Washington, D.C. 20071or tellme@washpost.com, and join Carolyn's live discussion at noon Fridays or 3p.m. Mondays at washingtonpost.com/liveonline.