The big question going into Wednesday evening's critical Virginia gubernatorialdebate was whether Republican nominee Ken Cuccinelli could find a way to shakeup a contest in which Democrat Terry McAuliffe has claimed a modest butmeaningful lead.Cuccinelli failed to do so, and the back-and-forth in a Tysons Corner auditoriumillustrated two main reasons.First, the Republican's long, well-documented record as a prominent crusader forreligious right and tea party causes has made it difficult for him to make acredible appeal to middle-of-the-road voters.As a result, McAuliffe was able to keep Cuccinelli on the defensive by citinghis past, controversial positions that the Republican would prefer to avoiddiscussing.The most prominent one on Wednesday was Cuccinelli's previous backing of aso-called personhood bill. The measure was designed, in part, to stop abortion,but many doctors think it would also prohibit some common forms of birthcontrol.Astonishingly, Cuccinelli, whose lack of support among women is killing hisstanding in the polls, did not challenge McAuliffe's repeated contentions thathe wanted to outlaw contraception.Cuccinelli, the state's attorney general, has said previously that he had nointention of trying to interfere with contraception - but he didn't repeat thatin the debate. I don't think it helped him much with female voters when he said,"You may not always agree with me . . . but you'll always know where I stand."Then there is the second reason why Cuccinelli is having trouble clawing his wayback into the race. The gifts scandal in Richmond has undermined what shouldhave been one of his strongest arguments: that his opponent is ethicallychallenged.McAuliffe, a former Democratic Party national chairman and world-classfundraiser, has a questionable record in both campaign fundraising and privatebusiness dealings.Cuccinelli highlighted this in one of his best lines of the night, saying thatwith McAuliffe in the governor's mansion, the commonwealth would have to changeits motto from "sic semper tyrannis" ("thus always to tyrants") to "quid proquo."But Cuccinelli spent at least as much time in the debate trying to explain whyhe took $18,000 in gifts from Star Scientific chief executive Jonnie WilliamsSr. as he did pounding McAuliffe over transgressions such as the current federalinvestigation of a "green car" company that the Democrat founded.Cuccinelli did not directly answer a pointed question from my Washington Postcolleague Ben Pershing as to why he thought Williams gave him the gifts. Heseemed to point the finger at Gov. Robert McDonnell (R)."Ironically, I met Mr. Williams through the governor," Cuccinelli said. "Whatwas going on there didn't seem like a big deal."Cuccinelli did ring up points by calling out McAuliffe for being unaware that agovernor's signature would not be required to amend the state's constitution, ifthe General Assembly repealed the state's ban on gay marriage.That reinforced a narrative promoted by the GOP that McAuliffe doesn't knowenough about Virginia government to be an effective governor.But voters have known from the start that Cuccinelli had considerable experiencein state office, while McAuliffe has none. The Republican's problem is therecord he's built while accumulating all that experience, which McAuliffe triedto highlight during the debate.Since he received the GOP nomination in May, Cuccinelli has been trying to copyMcDonnell's successful strategy from four years ago of playing down hisconservative stances on hot-button topics. Instead, he emphasizes jobs and hismore palatable social views.That approach was evident from Cuccinelli's opening statement in the debate. Hereferred to his efforts over the years to stop sexual assaults and to help thehomeless and the mentally ill.But Cuccinelli had other priorities as attorney general. He used the office towage high-profile efforts, often unsuccessfully, for pet causes such as opposingObamacare, abortion, equal rights for gays, and environmental regulation.Given that, Virginia voters are right to be suspicious that he would act asgovernor just as he did as the state's top lawman.Unless he can reverse that perception- or McAuliffe stumbles - Cuccinelli facesa tough path to win the governorship. In this potentially pivotal debate, thefirst to be broadcast statewide, nothing changed to make that trek significantlyeasier.robert.mccartney@washpost.comI discusss local issues at 8:50 a.m. Friday on WAMU (88.5 FM). For previouscolumns, go to washingtonpost.com/mccartney.