Watching Jerry Kilgore's latest TV ads in the Virginia governor's race, youmight conclude that Tim Kaine is a Hitler lover and that Kilgore's idea ofjustice comes from the Taliban.In the commonwealth where Thomas Jefferson and James Madison once debated thepurpose of government, we now get to watch the tortured relatives of murdervictims go on TV in new Kilgore ads that use every tacky trick in the book toknee Kaine in the groin.The spots are devilishly well-made, from the soft lighting and weepy narrator tothe tinkling piano music and Kilgore's simply beautiful eye blink of utterhonesty. But their content is pernicious: "Tim Kaine voluntarily represented theperson who murdered my son," the father of a murdered man says in one ad. This,we are supposed to believe, is a heinous act.In the warped world of TV campaigning, we have one candidate for governor whodoesn't believe in the American system of justice and another who coddles massmurderers.From that same ad: "Tim Kaine says that Adolf Hitler doesn't qualify for thedeath penalty."Here's what Kaine really said when the Richmond Times-Dispatch asked if peoplelike Hitler should be executed:"Well, you know. . . . God grants life and God should take it away. Do horrible,heinous things deserve incredible punishment? You bet."Kaine talked about his religious opposition to taking a life, and exceptionssuch as self-defense and a just war. Pushed, he said terrible criminals "maydeserve" death, but noted that "most nations have decided not to have a deathpenalty, and many are very safe."Sorry, Jerry, but this was no Michael Dukakis moment, named for the 1988presidential nominee who torpedoed his campaign by flatly remarking that he'doppose the death penalty for someone who raped and murdered his wife. I'd wantto tear apart such a thug, and I bet Kaine would, too.But I'd also want the state to rise above my vengeful rage and stand for theprinciple that government is no murderer. I think that's what Kaine believesinside, but I can't report that as a fact because Kaine is playing games. Hewants us to give him a bye because his convictions are grounded in his religion.People on both sides of this debate would grant Kaine and his Catholic faithgreat respect because there is a poetic consistency to the church's belief inprotecting life from either the death penalty or abortion.But Kaine doesn't stop there. No, he wants us to believe that in both cases, hecan and would separate his personal beliefs from his pledge to uphold the law.He opposes abortion, but he'd enforce laws that allow it. He opposes the deathpenalty, but he'd sign death warrants and marshal legal resources to kill morecapital convicts.Kaine, a terrific lawyer, is well-versed in the art of arguing for that whichyou do not believe. But this makes no sense as a basis for election as governor.We elect people not only for their managerial skill, but for their moral andcivic leadership. I want to vote for people who believe what they stand for andstand for what they believe in.When John Kennedy said in the 1960 campaign that his first allegiance was to hiscountry, not to the pope in Rome, he was allaying the fears of Protestants whoincorrectly believed that Catholics mindlessly followed the Vatican'sdirectives. Kaine is trying to wrap himself in Kennedy's glow, but this is adifferent issue. Many American Roman Catholics reject some of the church'steachings. If Kaine said, okay, here's where I differ with my church, mostvoters would accept that. Instead, he embraces those teachings in his heart, yetresolves to ignore them in his daily work. That's just too cynical.Yet it is not even in the same realm of cynicism as Kilgore's spots. FewVirginians put the death penalty, abortion, guns or gay adoption even close tothe top of their concerns, yet those issues are at the heart of Kilgore'scampaign.Here's what matters: Neither of these guys has any intention of attackingNorthern Virginia's transportation mess. Neither will come clean about the needto raise and spend money.So Virginians must choose: Insist that candidates speak to the issues that hithome, or sit back and enjoy Kilgore's spots as a fine example of the high art ofthe American cleverness industry, based on the bedrock belief that voters aredumb as stumps.Join me at noon todayfor "Potomac Confidential"atwww.washingtonpost.com/liveonline.