Are you feeling nostalgic about the beginning of the end of the BowlChampionship Series? Me neither.Replacing the BCS with a four-team playoff next season will not erase all thatis wrong with college football. But the start of the actual season helps to dullthe annoyances brought on by the usual offseason scandals, from the very serious(sexual assault cases involving players at Vanderbilt and Navy) to the lessserious (Johnny Manziel's offseason antics and personal fundraising activities)to the ridiculous (Oregon's champagne-wishes-and-caviar-dreams locker room).The start of the season also is a chance to dig out our college footballconference map and to try re-remember which team belongs to which conferencebefore conference play begins. For instance, Pittsburgh and Syracuse are in theACC. There is also a new conference, the American Athletic Conference. Yes,that's right, the AAC. This season, Louisville and Rutgers probably will be thebest teams in the AAC. Next season, Louisville and Rutgers will no longer be thebest teams in the AAC because Louisville is moving to the ACC and Rutgers to theBig Ten. Seriously.But enough of that. The season officially kicks off Thursday night with a prettygood game: North Carolina at No. 6 South Carolina. The Gamecocks have one of thebest players in the country, defensive end Jadeveon Clowney. When you interviewClowney, does he say, "That's a Clowney question, bro"? Probably not. Too bad.Instead, the highlight this week on "SportsCenter" will be all the interviewswith Steve Spurrier while he's sitting in a golf cart. It's as timeless andfamiliar as the swallows returning to Capistrano - in a golf cart.Saturday's lineup includes No. 1  Alabama, whose pursuit of a record threetitles in a row begins in Atlanta against Virginia Tech. A third title - justwhat the Tide needs, because otherwise how will Nick Saban get anyone to playfor him? In college football, this is the definition of the rich getting richer- I'm not talking about Manziel now - which is why schools such as Alabama canstay on top.That's also the reason the playing field (no pun intended) is so uneven, and whyschools such as Maryland jump to conferences like the Big Ten. It's the money,honey. That's why the preseason top 25 looks like a rundown of the top programsof the past 20 years - plus Northwestern and minus Michigan State. And that'swhy the SEC has a pretty good chance of extending its national title streak toeight.Still, even with college football's predictability, this is a great weekend."College GameDay" returns, but it's still a great weekend. This is the weekend,for example, that a young quarterback can lead his team to a 50-48 victory in agame so anticipated it was played on a Friday, not normally a hot spot on theschedule. But it was also played on ESPN, and that made all the difference forBaylor and TCU two years ago. A lot of people started their holiday weekend bystaying up to watch the shootout, and Robert Griffin III became a national name.Even if your alma mater is not good, you root for it this weekend. You beginrooting against your mortal enemies this weekend. If you're a Wahoo, you preparefor BYU; if you're a Terp, you get Florida International, a program in disarrayand a school that's also in a new conference: Conference USA.And all that love and all that hate translates to the national scene. You startrooting for or against Alabama to three-peat, depending on your allegiance. Youlook forward to national games such as Nebraska-Michigan or Notre Dame vs.Michigan, or Michigan State, or Oklahoma, or USC, or Stanford. (This is theanswer to the question: Why does Notre Dame have its own TV deal?)The point is, this is when college football loses that rotting meat smell andbecomes fun and interesting. Enjoy it, because sadly, there will be anotheroffseason in 2014.tracee.hamilton@washpost.comFor more by Tracee Hamilton, visit washingtonpost.com/hamilton.