Two District men who were star witnesses in the high-profile 1985 trial againsta gang in the beating death of a 48-year-old woman told a judge Wednesday thatthey were coerced by police and prosecutors into pleading guilty and testifyingagainst their friends.Eight men were convicted of murder in the Oct. 1, 1984, death of CatherineFuller in her H Street NE neighborhood. This week, a D.C. Superior Court judgeis hearing arguments about whether to retry or exonerate the six still inprison.On Wednesday, Calvin L. Alston said police questioned him several times evenafter he said he knew nothing about Fuller's death. They said he would spend therest of his life in prison if he did not cooperate, he said.Harry J. Bennett, meanwhile, said the version of the attack that he testified toin 1985 was fed to him by detectives.Fuller's body was found in a garage in an alley just off the busy H Streetcorridor. She had been beaten and robbed, and a 12-inch metal pole had beenshoved into her rectum, according to authorities.Alston, 46, said a woman who had been arrested on burglary charges identifiedhim as having information about the killing. He told detectives that he knewnothing about Fuller's death but was threatened with a lengthy jail sentence ifhe did not cooperate, he told Judge Frederick Weisberg."I was confused," Alston said. "I was a scared child."Over three hours, Alston said, detectives asked him questions, provided him withnames of his friends they thought were part of the attack and told him what theyknew about it. They went over his account a dozen times, Alston testified, andthen videotaped a 31-minute statement in which he provided a detaileddescription of the attack that included the names and action of several of hisfriends.The video, which showed Alston drinking a bottle of orange soda as he discussedthe attack, was played in court Wednesday."I added things into it which I heard them say," Alston said. On Wednesday,prosecutors challenged his version of events, asking why he thought detectiveswanted him to falsify his account; Alston said he was never ordered to repeatwhat they told him but felt that doing so would satisfy police.After recording the interview, Alston said, he was charged with first-degreemurder.While in jail, Alston said, three inmates sexually assaulted him. He was movedto a jail in Richmond."I just wanted to go home," Alston said. He pleaded guilty to second-degreemurder and agreed to testify against his friends; he was sentenced to 12 to 36years in prison and was released in 2005.He says he now regrets lying. "I hurt their families and these men," he said. "Iwas wrong, and I am trying to correct a wrong."Eight men, then ages 16 to 21, were convicted of first-degree murder in 1985 andsentenced to between 35 years and life in prison: Kelvin Smith, Steven L. Webb,Levy Rouse, Clifton Yarborough, Timothy Catlett, Russell Overton and brothersCharles and Christopher Turner.Christopher Turner was released in 2010. Webb died in prison. The rest remainincarcerated.Attorneys for the six men still behind bars say prosecutors and detectivescoerced confessions and withheld information during the trial, a violation oflegal rules. Authorities have said the defense attorneys' claims "would notundermine confidence" in the original verdicts.http://www.washingtonpost.com/local/crime/in-1984-dc-murder-case-court-to-examine-allegations-of-prosecutor-misconduct/2012/04/22/gIQAXSFNaT_story.htmlBennett, 46, testified Wednesday thatdetectives "threatened to lock up my mother and my father, so I just startedsaying things I heard on the news or had heard on the street" when he wasquestioned.Bennett pleaded guilty to second-degree murder and gave a detailed account ofthe attack on the stand bolstered by information he now says was relayed to himby detectives. He has since been released from prison and says he was notinvolved in the attack."I want the truth to be revealed," he said. "I live with this every day."The hearings began Monday. Weisberg could rule that the convictions shouldstand, vacate them and release the men, or ordera new trial.Another witness, Melvin Montgomery, had been expected to testify Tuesday thathe, too, lied when he testified against the men in 1985. Instead, he surpriseddefense attorneys by saying he was truthful, although he admitted signing anaffidavit that said otherwise.alexanderk@washpost.com