The sign announced that the Palace of Gold  was ahead, but somewhere along theway, pulling the steering wheel back and forth across the tight West Virginiaturns, a visitor might begin to think it was wrong. That the promised land can'tbe reached. Instead he'll spend eternity driving by one-story homes that doubleas beauty parlors, and hillside cemeteries dotted with bright silk flowers thatnever lose their bloom.Then at the top of the mountain - his hands cramped and heart racing fromanother near-miss with a deer - it unfolds. The palace is massive and ornate,with gilded spires cutting into the sky. Instantly, it's evident why this place,about 15  miles southeast of Wheeling, was called America's Taj Mahal."Welcome to Heaven," a New York Times story proclaimed of New Vrindaban, oncethe nation's largest Hare Krishna community. The palace opened its doors togreat celebration in 1979 and became one of West Virginia's biggest touristattractions. Newspapers, magazines and television raved about the handiwork ofthe devotees who built the magnificent structure in honor of their guru.Then came the scandal, the corruption, the child abuse and murder. The betrayalof faith, the fissions of community.New Vrindaban is now often eerily still, the rural silence pierced only by theshrill cry of a peacock. In solitude, one might notice that the walls arecrumbling and the paint is peeling. The palace is in decay.But change is rumbling through the mountains: New leadership has arrived, as hasa controversial new source of money. American Hindus and tourists are once againmaking the pilgrimage to New Vrindaban.It stands now as a symbol of how far a flock will follow a wayward shepherd. Butalso how hard some will work to rebuild a place they still believe is holy.THE BEGINNINGSSankirtana Das felt a pull grow stronger as he, his wife and their two youngchildren approached New Vrindaban on a dark winter night in 1976. The communityhad been placed under quarantine because of a hepatitis outbreak, so the29-year-old and his family sneaked in. During their first frigid weeks in asmall cabin, they subsisted on  mung water, a concoction thought by Vedictradition to have healing properties.Sankirtana, born Andy Fraenkel, was the son of a Jewish father and Lutheranmother. He grew up in Manhattan, and studied theater and film at City Universityof New York.After seeing the Hare Krishna devotees chanting in colorful robes around thecity, he decided to make a short documentary for a school project. He wasintrigued by the chant - especially after hearing it on the George Harrisontrack "My Sweet Lord" - so when he and his future wife struck out for a quieterlife in Canada, they brought along the Bhagavad-Gita, the ancient   Hinduscripture, and made their own beads to use when chanting the Hare Krishnamantra."My wife and I both felt a kinship to the meditation," recalls Sankirtana, now65.They gave up marijuana and LSD, and became vegetarians. When the money ran out,they headed back to the States, stopping in Detroit to hear a talk by thefounder of the Hare Krishna movement, Srila Prabhupada.Prabhupada had sailed to New York on a freight ship in 1965 at 70. He carriedwith him $8, an umbrella and a command from his spiritual guru to spread to theWest their religious traditions, which shared roots with Hinduism but emphasizeda holy repetition of God's name. He chanted in parks and set up a storefrontheadquarters for his sect, the International Society for Krishna Consciousness(ISKCON).Prabhupada's message of material renunciation and spiritual focus resonated withcounterculture types looking for higher meaning. Within a few years, he hadinitiated thousands. Each new devotee agreed to the four rules: no gambling, nointoxicants, no sex outside of marriage and no eating meat. They were to chantfor 90 minutes or more every day and devote themselves to living in service ofGod, or Krishna. The men shaved their heads, save for a small tail in the back,and everyone donned saffron robes.One of Prabhupada's first initiates was Keith Ham, son of a Baptist minister whowould take the name Kirtanananda Swami, or Swami Bhaktipada. In 1968,Kirtanananda acquired farmland in West Virginia to build a rural Hare Krishnacommunity where devotees could live off the land. It was named after Vrindavan,a holy city in India near Krishna's birthplace.By the time Sankirtana and his family arrived, eight years later, there werenearly 80 devotees living on the mountainside. The community's motto was "Simpleliving, high thinking." Most members lived in small rooms above a barn thathoused milking cows, the grocery store was miles away, and diapers had to bewashed by hand outside.Sankirtana's job was to cook breakfast and lunch. He awoke for a 4:30 a.m.devotional service, followed by chanting and meditation. Then he went outside tocook beans and rice over fire pits."It was tough, but we felt like we were pioneers," Sankirtana recalls. "And weowned this project. It was a very communal atmosphere. You ate your meals at thetemple, and if you needed a toothbrush or toothpaste, everything you needed wassupplied by the temple."By the early 1970s, Kirtanananda had turned his focus to building a house forPrabhupada, with the hope that the aging guru would come to stay and continuehis work of translating ancient Sanskrit texts.The vision for a modest home morphed into an opulent palace. Land was cleared onMcCreary's Ridge, and devotees learned to stain glass and lay bricks. Theyimported 52 varieties of onyx and marble for walls and floors. They carvedfurniture out of teak, constructed crystal chandeliers, painted elaborate muralson the ceilings and adorned the 10 rooms with jewels.But in 1977, Prabhupada died - the Krishnas, who believe in reincarnation, wouldsay he left his body - and plans changed again. Now the palace was to be amajestic memorial.Two years later, the Palace of Gold opened to the public. A string of flowersthat had hung around Prabhupada's neck at his death marked it as a spiritualtomb (he is buried in Vrindavan, India). Nearly a thousand devotees came tochant and dance with ecstasy at the weekend-long festival."People always ask, 'Why is it so opulent?' " Sankirtana says. "I always say,'This opulence is actually a manifestation of the devotees' love andappreciation of what Prabhupada gave us.' "The palace became an immediate sensation.THE SCANDALBut even as the palace doors opened, the facade of nirvana was beginning tocrack.  Kirtanananda assumed  power at New Vrindaban, which by then had 500members, making it the largest and most famous Hare Krishna community in theUnited States.And although Prabhupada intended the community to be a self-sustaining spiritualoasis with seven temples on seven hills, the emphasis on farming and the disdainof material wealth began to slip away. Devotees were sent to airports andsporting events to work  the crowds for donations - often under false pretenses- and sometimes sold counterfeit goods.The community became heavily male-dominated. Women were forced to leave theirchildren in communal nurseries for hours at a time. Kirtanananda's ego grew ashis sway over devotees increased. He was a slight man who walked with a limpfrom childhood polio, but he was charismatic and persuasive. And he tightlymanaged every aspect of the community: who came, who went, who was doing what atany given moment.Kirtanananda strayed from Prabhupada's teachings by introducing interfaithelements to the prayer services. The shifts were deeply divisive, butKirtanananda had little tolerance for dissent.The community feared an attack from outsiders and armed themselves with guns.Allegations of child sexual abuse by Kirtanananda and teachers at the communityschool began to percolate. Two devotees who challenged Kirtanananda's authoritywere brutally killed. Another devotee, who was convicted of the murders, wouldlater say he acted on the order of Kirtanananda.Kirtanananda himself was attacked by a mentally ill visitor. After 10 days in acoma and a month in the hospital, Kirtanananda returned to New Vrindaban, andtwo German shepherds were acquired to guard him at all times.Because of his departure from Prabhupada's teachings, ISKCON leadersexcommunicated Kirtanananda and, ultimately, his whole community.After an FBI raid, a federal grand jury charged Kirtanananda with racketeering,mail fraud and  conspiracy to murder. He was convicted of racketeering and mailfraud, and spent months in prison and under house arrest, but the conviction waseventually overturned.Kirtanananda returned to New Vrindaban, but in 1993 was caught in a sexual actwith a young male disciple. Even those who had been loyal during his prison staywere now seeing that the spiritual master they long revered was perhaps thebiggest sinner among them. The feds were sure of it: At a retrial in 1996,Kirtanananda pleaded guilty to mail fraud and got 20 years in prison.He was released in 2004 and died in October 2011 at a hospital in India at 74.THE EFFECTSDonations from Hindu Americans had been a major source of revenue for NewVrindaban, but once news of Kirtanananda's crimes surfaced, they shut theirpocketbooks. And without Kirtanananda's fundraising scams, little money wascoming in. Devotees left in droves."I was too stubborn to leave," Sankirtana recalls. "We were saying, 'Well, waita minute. This is not Kirtanananda's community. This is Prabhupada'scommunity.'"By the late 1990s, New Vrindaban's population dropped to 225 members. The schoolhad fewer than a dozen students. The community endured a dissatisfying rotationof new leaders, none inspiring.To stay afloat, New Vrindaban sold off land to members, who built houses. To paytheir taxes, some became long-haul truckers; others took seasonal jobs sellingChristmas gifts at mall kiosks. Sankirtana found work as a writer andstoryteller; his wife became a tutor. Life became less communal, but also lessrestrictive.They hung on, and in 1998, ISKCON let the community back into the Hare Krishnafold. Last year,  the devotees got a new leader, someone they felt they couldtrust, someone aloft in spirit and grounded in business savvy.Today, New Vrindaban feel something like an abandoned garden. There are signs ofneglect and desolation, but also of beauty and new life. About 165 devoteesbelong, living either above the temple in an ashram, in a nearby apartmentcomplex or in modest homes that dot the winding road. There is still a pastureof 65 cows, though 60 are too old to give milk.New Vrindaban is most alive before 6  a.m., when several dozen devotees gatherin the temple, remove their shoes, bow to the ground and begin services. Whileeven the birds still sleep, the devotees dance and drum and sing before colorfulstatues of their deities.They lay food and flowers at altars, each representing a form or facet of God.To the side sits a wax statue of a cross-legged Prabhupada. When there is achill, devotees adjust a covering over his shoulders; in the heat they turn afan to face him.It is a jubilant scene, illuminated by candlelight and perfumed with incense.After 45 minutes, they will sit with prayer beads and meditate on the names ofGod. Then there will be more chanting and a class on scripture. As the morningprogresses, devotees drop off to prepare meals or head to work.Devotees who've chosen a life of celibacy often still wear orange or whiterobes, but most others dress in jeans and flannel shirts, flowing skirts orsaris. They manage their own time, and attendance isn't taken at  services.Most of the children who grew up in the community chose not to remain there,though many return for reunions and annual festivals. But a small stream ofother young people has begun to flow in - devotees from other temples who want aquiet place to raise children or are drawn to living off the land and studyingunder Prabhupada's early disciples.Two other recent developments have reinvigorated the community: the newleadership and new money.THE NEW LEADERTake away the white robes, stocking feet and streak of clay running down hisforehead, and you can almost see the businessman that Jaya Krishna once was.He is sitting at a long table beneath a picture of Prabhupada. He is 59, thoughhe looks a decade younger. Until 10 years ago, he was a sales executive at asoftware company in his native Switzerland.But even as his career thrived, he longed for something more. "You have yourhouse. You have your second car," he says. "But where is happiness coming from?Is this really what life is all about?"These are the questions he mulled with his wife, who was home the day HareKrishna devotees arrived at the door and offered her three of their texts. "Youhave to read this book," Jaya Krishna remembers her saying when he arrived home."This book is for you."Within the year, both his wife and 23-year-old son died in tragic accidents."She was gone. And then suddenly I said, 'Oh, there is a book somewhere I haveto read,' " he recalls.What he read in the Bhagavad-Gita struck a chord. He had always grappled withthe question of why some people are born rich, others poor, some healthy, othersdisabled. The concepts of reincarnation and karma made sense. "And somehow youget this feeling, 'Oh, that's right,' " he says. "The soul is hankering for thisrelationship with God, and the mantra is reestablishing this relationship."He went to India and was initiated. Because of his leadership skills, he wassent to Belgium to direct an ISKCON college. Last year, he was asked to come toNew Vrindaban.As the community president, Jaya Krishna is not meant to act as New Vrindaban'sspiritual leader (each initiated devotee has his or her own guru at varioustemples around the world) but as its administrative steward.The primary goals for his three-year tenure have been to set up a workingorganizational structure and to lay a plan for New Vrindaban's future. But thefirst step, he says, is to help the devotees believe in their community."Based on the history, their trust has been shattered - their faith," he says."We have such big potential. Everybody loves to be here. We just have to changeourselves internally so we can believe it."Jaya Krishna breaks from his office work to help serve lunch every day. LatelyAmerican Hindus and tourists are once again making the pilgrimage, touring thePalace of Gold and taking pictures at the 25-foot-tall statues of deitiesoverlooking a fish pond."I would like to support the community ... to become prosperous and focused onthe instructions of our founder [Prabhupada]. That is, protect the cows, educate- everyone, not just the children - and finally, deepen and spread Krishnaconsciousness," he says.And there has been an influx in money to advance the cause.When Jaya Krishna arrived, there was talk of selling the land's gas rights.With the temple property, the farmland and the homeowners' individual plots, NewVrindaban owned about 2,000 acres on the Marcellus Shale, a gas-rich stretch ofearth running from Tennessee through West Virginia to Upstate New York.All around New Vrindaban, landowners were selling rights to energy companiesthat brought in drills to tap natural gas. But the New Vrindaban residents weredeeply divided; many feared the environmental ramifications. Almost 50 residentssigned a protest letter asking ISKCON's national governing board to stop thenegotiation.But ultimately a board of members voted to sell the rights to Chevron, arguingthat the gas from their land would be tapped through nearby drills even if theydidn't make a deal, so they might as well get a cut of the money.A $4 million payment was quickly  disbursed on renovation: new roofs,restoration of guest cabins, ashram rooms and a lodge restaurant. Other paymentswent to a trust holding the community's agricultural land and to individualhomeowners. Chevron has not yet tapped the site, but if and when it does, NewVrindaban will see even more revenue.Jaya Krishna is hoping the spruced-up grounds will bring an influx of visitors.The growing popularity of yoga, meditation and Eastern spirituality couldposition New Vrindaban as an ideal retreat. He envisions expandedaccommodations, educational offerings, shops. The community also hopes toacquire more milking cows and revitalize the agricultural program.There is a renewed emphasis on living off the land, and young followersinterested in the local food movement consider the community a mecca."I just love the peacefulness here," says Estefania Perez del Solar, a25-year-old devotee who arrived last summer. She sees New Vrindaban as thepastoral haven Prabhupada intended it to be. She was not born when Kirtananandawas banned from the place. To her, the history is an interesting footnote, notthe defining truth.Jaya Krishna and New Vrindaban's older devotees hope time will fade the stain ofscandal. That their guru's vision will once again flourish on the mountaintop.Ellen McCarthy is a Washington Post staff writer. To comment on this story, goto washingtonpost.com/magazine or e-mail to wpmagazine@washpost.comScandal.Corruption.Murder. Can a W.Va.Hare Krishna community restore its faith?