Sponsor: Swift Boat Veterans for TruthImages: The camera closes in on a black-and-white photograph of John F. Kerrytestifying at a 1971 Senate hearing as his words appear on the screen andveterans, filmed in color, criticize him.Time: 60 secondsAudio: JOHN KERRY: They had personally raped, cut off ears, cut off heads ...JOE PONDER: The accusations that John Kerry made against the veterans who servedin Vietnam was just devastating. KERRY: ... randomly shot at civilians . . .PONDER: ...and it hurt me more than any physical wounds I had. KERRY: ...cut offlimbs, blown up bodies ... KEN CORDIER: That was part of the torture, to sign astatement that you had committed war crimes. KERRY:. . .razed villages in afashion reminiscent of Genghis Khan ... PAUL GALANTI: John Kerry gave the enemyfor free what I and many of my comrades in the North Vietnamese prison campstook torture to avoid saying. It demoralized us. KERRY: ... crimes committed ona day-to-day basis ... CORDIER: He betrayed us in the past, how could we beloyal to him now? KERRY:. . .ravaged the countryside of South Vietnam ...GALANTI: He dishonored his country and, more importantly, the people he servedwith. He just sold them out.Analysis: Kerry's testimony after returning from Vietnam helped launch hispolitical career and is certainly fair game for a negative ad. He was a leaderof Vietnam Veterans Against the War and had just led a major Washington protestagainst the conflict. The strength of this spot, by the independent group thathas roiled the campaign by accusing the senator of lying about his militaryrecord, is that it uses Kerry's own words and voice.But Kerry's testimony is selectively edited in a way that is misleading. Hebegan by talking about a conference in Detroit several months earlier in whichsome of the 150 veterans told him stories of atrocities. "They told the storiesat times they had personally raped, cut off ears, cut off heads," Kerry said,but the ad deletes the first six words, making it sound as though Kerry isoffering a firsthand account instead of reporting on what was dubbed the "WinterSoldier" investigation. Swift boat veteran John E. O'Neill says the ad is "veryfair" because Kerry was describing crimes committed on a day-to-day basis withthe knowledge of officers at all levels of command and "there's no way to putthe whole speech in."Some of the atrocities Kerry described have been documented, such as at the MyLai massacre, and others remain in dispute. While Kerry's testimony angered manyveterans, he portrayed himself as speaking out on behalf of disaffected vets,not attacking them.By using Kerry's testimony, the group avoids the credibility issues raised byits first attack spot in which some veterans have given inconsistent accounts ofthe candidate's military record.--  Howard KurtzVideo of this ad can be found at www.washingtonpost.com/politics.