Montgomery County detectives are investigating whether a workplace dispute overstolen merchandise led to the slaying inside a Bethesda yoga clothing shop,police said Saturday.In court papers, detectives said the suspect's coverup cracked under mountingforensic evidence and investigators' questions.http://www.washingtonpost.com/local/2011/03/18/ABd2rJs_story.htmlBrittanyNorwood, who was a standout soccer player in high school and college, is chargedwith murder in the March 11 death of her co-worker, Jayna Murray, 30. Norwood,28, was being held at the Montgomery County jail Saturday without bond. She isdue in court Monday.Norwood at first portrayed herself as a victimin the attack, and police said sheconcocted the story that had downtown Bethesda on edge for a week: that twomasked men entered Lululemon Athletica after closing time, sexually assaultedher and Murray, tried to steal money and left her tied up in the store, whereshe was discovered the next morning.But according to the new court records, detectives slowly gathered evidence thatcontradicted the story. At one point in the court papers, Detective James Drewrylabeled as "unbelievable" Norwood's explanation of why she moved the victim'scar on a night that she supposedly spent tied up in a restroom.From early in the case, detectives could see problems with Norwood's story,according to the court filing.At 8:12 a.m. March 12, a Lululemon employee arrived to open the store. She sawsigns of disarray and heard "moaning coming from the back of the store,"according to the court filing. Police were called. Patrol officers who arrivedtook pictures of Norwood, who was lying on a floor in the restroom, her handsand feet bound with zip ties. She soon told detectives her story. Norwood saidthat while one of the masked men tried to steal  money, the other assaultedMurray in the back of the store, according to the court papers. Norwood said shewas then sexually assaulted.But a medical examination of Norwood found no trauma consistent with the attackshe had described, and further investigation showed that Murray had not beenraped, according to authorities. In addition, remarking on Norwood's injuries,Drewry noted that scratches running parallel across her chest, stomach andthighs had the hallmarks of self-inflicted wounds, according to  court papers.As doubts rose about details of her account, detectives studied photos ofNorwood that were taken by the responding patrol officers. They concluded thatthe position of Norwood's hands - above her head - indicated that she had posedherself, the papers say.But it was evidence found in Murray's car and the fact that the car had beenmoved that led to the complete unraveling of Norwood's story, police said.Detectives asked tough questions after trying not to push too hard in earlierinterviews, police said. They asked if she moved the car, and she said she did,according to the court papers. They asked how that could be, in light of therest of her story. Norwood said the two assailants let her leave the store tomove the car but told her to come back in 10 minutes or they'd kill her,according to the court records. Norwood said that as she was moving the car, shesaw a police officer but did not tell him what was going on.Detectives will now focus on a motive. Norwood was a star soccer player at herhigh school outside Seattle and played the sport in college at Stony BrookUniversity in New York. She appeared to encounter financial difficulties aboutthree years ago, according to court papers and public records. But nothing inher past could explain charges that she stabbed and beat Murray to death.Officials said Saturday that detectives are looking into whether the killingstemmed from Norwood "being suspected of stealing merchandise." But detectiveshave not ruled out other possible motives.Kenny Fried, a spokesman forLululemon, declined to comment about Norwood, saying the company didn't want tointerfere with the police investigation.According to D.C. Superior Court records, Norwood's landlord took action to haveher and a roommate evicted from an apartment on Kenyon Street NW in ColumbiaHeights in 2008. A lien was filed against Norwood in 2007 for $19,953 by NewYork state's higher-education agency.It is unclear whether Norwood has retained an attorney. Online court recordsindicate that she had not. Efforts to reach relatives were unsuccessful. Severalpeople who answered telephones listed to relatives politely declined to commentand hung up.Norwood went to high school in Federal Way, Wash., about 20 miles from Seattle.At Decatur High School, she was a skilled soccer player and was named rookie ofthe year as a sophomore and most valuable player as a senior. Sue Ryan, headcoach of the women's soccer team at Stony Brook, said in a 2002 team releasethat Norwood had the mental makeup to be the best defender in the league."Brittany hates losing more than she likes winning," Ryan said.More recently, Norwood worked at the Willard InterContinental Hotel onPennsylvania Avenue NW, according to a spokeswoman for the hotel. Barbara Bahny,director of public relations at the Willard, said, "Brittany was an employee buthas not been at the Willard for some time." Bahny said Norwood left the hotelabout a year ago "on her own accord."morsed@washpost.comhedgpethd@washpost.comStaff writers Maria Glod and Brigid Schulte and researcher Lucy Shackelfordcontributed to this report.