When it comes to crime, legalized casino gambling seemed to be a surprisinglygood bet: Local unemployment went down, tax revenue went up and crime didn'tincrease when a  casino opened. Some researchers even found that crime declinedimmediately after casinos came to town.Well, the casino cure for crime proved to be just as delusional as gamblers'luck, says University of Georgia economist David B. Mustard.Mustard and Earl L. Grinols of Baylor University analyzed crime data collectedfrom all 3,165 U.S. counties in the United States from 1977 to 1996 and lookedat local crime rates before and after casinos opened.They found that crime didn't budge when a casino  began operating  --  at leastat first. Crime began to rise after the first year, slowly at first and thenmore quickly, until it had far surpassed what it would have been if the casinohad never opened. By the fifth year of operation, robberies were up 136 percent;aggravated assaults, 91 percent; auto theft, 78 percent; burglary, 50 percent;larceny, 38 percent; and rape, 21 percent. Controlling for other factors, 8.6percent of property crimes and 12.6 percent of violent crimes were  attributedto casinos, he said.But what about all those casino jobs and newly minted police? Mustard said thepositive effects of casinos are fleeting  --  payrolls and tax collectionsquickly plateau, and municipalities don't keep adding cops after the first waveof casino tax revenue rolls in.What's more, Mustard said, crime rates didn't rise in neighboring counties whilethey soared in casino counties  --  evidence that casinos create crime locallyand don't merely attract it from somewhere else.And here's sobering news for those in the District and Maryland who thinkcasinos would jump-start the local economies: "Even using conservative estimatesof costs and generous estimates of benefits, we still find the costs exceed thebenefits," Mustard said.Who supports terrorism in the Middle East? Not the people you'd expect,according to Dalia Mogahed of the Gallup Organization. Surveys in eight Muslimcountries revealed that supporters of terrorism  --  defined as those whoapplauded the Sept. 11, 2001, attacks  --  were no more religious than otherMuslims and tended to be better-educated and more affluent.The polls found those who regularly attended prayer services were no more likelyto back terrorism than those who did not. Nor were Muslims who agreed thatreligion "was an important part of your daily life."About 25 percent of all Muslims with higher-than-average incomes supported theSept. 11 attacks  --  slightly more than those who had below-average incomes orwere poor. Among high school or college graduates, 44 percent held extremistviews, compared with 38 percent of less-educated Muslims. And the unemployedwere no more likely to back terrorism than those who worked full time, accordingto the poll of 8,000 Muslims in October.What did distinguish terrorism supporters? Belief in self-determination, Mogahedfound. Extremists were only about half as likely as moderates to believe thatthe United States would allow people in the Middle East to fashion their ownpolitical future.A new record: More than 1,000 people participated in our latest onlineexperiment  --  on the first day alone. But we're always looking for morevolunteers willing to serve as cyber-lab rats in real experiments developed byStanford University's political communication lab in collaboration with TheWashington Post and washingtonpost.com. To participate, go to www.washingtonpost.com/richmorin, look for the box headlined "Post-Stanford Experiments" andchoose survey No. 4."How Bad is a 10% Chance of Losing a Toe? Judgments of Probabilistic Conditionsby Doctors and Laypeople" by Andrea D. Gurmankin and Jonathan Baron, Memory andCognition, Vol. 33, No. 8. Harvard University and University of Pennsylvaniapsychologists found that people think going blind is almost as bad as dying andabout as bad as having both legs amputated below the knees, while becoming deafin one ear is worse than losing a toe but not as bad as having one legamputated."Men in Chorus: Collaboration and Competition in Homo-Social Vocal Behaviour" byRobert Faulker and Jane W. Davidson, Psychology of Music, Vol. 34, No. 2. Tworesearchers from the University of Sheffield journey to rural Iceland to studyan all-male choir and learn that singing together in harmony is an "essentialand enriching way of relating to others, fulfilling basic needs for vocal andsocial connectedness.""Under the Weather: Health, Schooling, and Socioeconomic Consequences ofEarly-Life Rainfall" by Sharon Maccini and Dean Yang, working paper, Gerald R.Ford School of Public Policy, University of Michigan. Researchers find thatIndonesian women born in rainy years grow to be taller, stay in school longerand have husbands with higher earnings than women born in areas with lowrainfall in the year of their birth, suggesting "a positive impact of rainfallon agricultural output, leading to higher household incomes and better healthfor infant girls." Rainfall in birth years had no impact on boys' lives.CORRECTION-DATE: May 13, 2006CORRECTION:An item in the May 11 Unconventional Wisdom column incorrectly characterized thepercentage of Muslims with above-average incomes or college educations whoexpress support for terrorism. Of those who Gallup defined as "potentialextremists," about 25 percent had higher-than-average incomes and 44 percent hadcollege educations.