Think alleged sexual predator, and 22-year-old substitute teacher Symone Greeneis not what comes to mind.Take a look at her résumé. She's a college graduate who has worked as a summerintern in the Prince George's County Police Department, a camp counselor, anintern at a Baltimore school for children with disabilities and a leader ofcampus volunteer program at Coppin State University. She knows sign language,plays the piano, does ballet and jazz dancing. She wants to go to graduateschool, she writes, "so that I can continue my studies and pursue a career inSpecial Education."But on a different piece of paper - a D.C. police arrest warrant - Greene isaccused of having oral sex with a 17-year-old student at Options Public CharterSchool and then allegedly urging him to lie about it.I know what some of you are going to say. This is every boy's fantasy, right?This case nearly broke the bro-verse section of the Internet. Men couldn't getenough of the story. Twitter was full of them begging for a picture of her.Whoa. Hold your horses,  all you David Lee Roths. No matter how hot for teacheryou are, what happened was wrong. And it's more common than you think.The most recent comprehensive study done on teacher-student sex was written 10years ago. And author Charol Shakeshaft, a professor of education leadership atVirginia Commonwealth University, said she was surprised to learn that in athird of the cases she looked at, female teachers were the predators.In September and October alone, two teachers were arrested for having sex with astudent in an apartment outside New Orleans, a teacher in New Jersey wasarrested for having sex with students in her car and a teacher  in Connecticutwas booked after threatening to fail a student for trying to stop the sex theyhad been having since the summer.Their behavior is every bit as creepy as male teachers who prey on femalestudents.Symone Greene - who has pleaded not guilty - doesn't fit the stereotype of anaccused sexual predator. But what she allegedly did is just as dangerous.The age of consent in the District, according to the statutes, is 16. So a17-year-old is not considered a child when it comes to consensual sex and thelaw, apparently. And because she was a contract worker hired to fill in atOptions Public for one day, Greene might not even be legally considered a D.C.public school teacher.We'll see how that issue is argued in court.Meanwhile, the 17-year-old football player doesn't exactly fit the profile of atraditional victim. Police said he gave his teacher his mobile phone numberhours after meeting her, texted her throughout the day and asked her to performoral sex the same number of times as his jersey number (seven, in case you wantto know). He allegedly videotaped the encounter without Greene's knowledge. Andthat video went viral throughout his school, police said.Sounds like he was after a lot more than seven sexual acts. Locker roomnotoriety, maybe?But what about Greene? She's the one who stands accused of a crime. If thepolice documents are right - and they include the long text conversation she hadwith a detective whom she had believed was the student - she was well aware ofwhat she was doing and how wrong she was.What about these boys - and according to Shakeshaft's study, there are thousandsof them - aren't they victims?They might be high-fiving their friends, but let's not forget that many of themwere manipulated and sometimes intimidated by an older person in a position ofpower. That's never a good life lesson.The Options football player now probably has an even more skewed view of what ittakes  to get a woman to pay attention to you.This kind of crime creates unseen victims, too. The victims are countless otherteachers whose students will read about this and be affected by it.The victims are other boys who have had unrealistic expectations fueled andrespect for women and teachers diminished.The victims are women who are constantly fighting for the right to be respected,treated as authority figures and not perpetually sexualized, stereotyped andjudged.The victims are all of us.petula.dvorak@washpost.comTwitter: @ petuladï...OE For previous columns, go to washingtonpost.com/dvorak.