A Good D.C. Man Is Hard to Find* Cosmopolitan's "All About Men" summer issue reveals the country's most amazingbachelors--one from each state, plus the District. The hunks are supposed to benominated by their moms, friends or co-workers, and the magazine picks the bestof the lot. But this year the D.C. nominees were, well, lame.So, desperate Cosmo staffers called up a Georgetown modeling agency, T.H.E., andasked to see head shots of its best beefcake. That's how 23-year-old KevinArcher was chosen. So should Washington women despair of getting guys?"There's a ton of eligible bachelors in D.C. I don't think it says anythingabout D.C. and the lack of bachelors," Archer told us yesterday. A graduate ofSt. John's College High School and Syracuse University (where he got a degree inhealth and exercise science), he said he's honored to be named a best bachelor,no matter how the magazine found him.Cosmo editor Kate White told us: "Some of the guys are so good-looking theyshould be models, and some actually are."A buff 6-footer, Archer told Cosmo that he's looking for a woman "who isdown-to-earth and goal-oriented and who also knows how to have a good time." Headded that he likes a woman who has "natural beauty, not someone who wears a tonof makeup." In the three weeks since the issue hit newsstands, Archer has beencontacted by several women--including one from Toronto. Interested females havealso sent letters to an address listed in the magazine. "I'm going to do my bestto write back to people," Archer promised. "I don't want to be rude."The Perils of PaulaAn angry Paula Jones phoned from Arkansas yesterday to rebut our report that shetried and failed to get into two George W. Bush campaign events in Little Rockthis week. "I don't know who your 'reliable sources' are, but this is not true,"said history's most famous sexual harassment plaintiff.Jones insisted that she was nowhere near a Monday morning Bush speech at LittleRock's Centers for Youth and Families (contrary to what Little Rock journalistSuzi Parker told us) and though she was at the Embassy Suites she didn't attemptto crash a lunchtime fundraiser there (contrary to what Bush campaign presssecretary Ari Fleischer told us). What's more, Jones strenuously objected toParker's assertion that she "was dressed like Daisy Mae, in a very revealinglow-cut thing, and said she wanted to meet the governor.""I was not wearing anything low-cut," Jones said. "I was wearing bluejeans and aGap baseball cap and a Tommy Hilfiger T-shirt that came up to my neck bone. Ididn't want to be noticed at all, and honestly I thought I could get away withit. If I wanted to be noticed, I'd show up looking beautiful and I'd wear a nicebeautiful suit."After talking it over with Jones yesterday, Parker conceded that the woman shesaw on Monday "looked like her and acted like her--but it must not have beenher."Jones said she went to the Embassy Suites with two friends, Teresa McLemore andDebbie Ballentine. "Debbie wanted me to go. She's a big fan of Bush. We did notbother to try and get in and we were not turned away. We just stayed outsidemeeting people, and afterwards the three of us went out to lunch. It looks likepeople are turning this around to say I'm trying to meet the governor. Well,yeah, so what? I have a right to meet the governor just like anybody else."Jones added: "My lawsuit was settled over a year ago, and I still can't go outto a concert or anything without something being in the papers the next day. I'ma normal person like anybody and I have a right to go out and have a good time.What am I gonna do, stay a recluse?"THIS JUST IN . . .* We are pleased to report that super-lobbyist Tom Korologos, 67, and PresidentReagan's labor secretary, Ann McLaughlin, 58, plan to be married inDecember--his second, her third. "We've been dating since the beginning of theyear, but we've known each other for 25 years," said Korologos, whose wife of 37years, Joy, died 3 1/2 years ago. McLaughlin--chairman of the Aspen Institute, amember of corporate boards and ex-spouse of shouting head John McLaughlin--said:"I feel incredibly comfortable with Tom. Frankly, this is a miracle. When it'sright, it's right."* Yesterday's Arkansas Democrat-Gazette reports that Sen. Tim Hutchinson, aRepublican up for reelection in 2002, beats Bill Clinton 49 percent to 41percent in a hypothetical matchup in the Mason-Dixon Poll. "I'd love for him torun," Hutchinson told us. "Any politician would want to run against the formerpresident. If anything, this probably taunts him to get into the race." Nocomment from the White House.Got a hot tip or a nagging question? Dish with Lloyd Grove today at 11 a.m. EDTat http://washingtonpost.com/liveonline