How in the world can a parent not get paranoid reading these files?In camps, cul-de-sacs, basement meetings and cars on the ride home, Boy Scoutswere stalked and assaulted by grown-ups they trusted: their scoutmasters andtroop volunteers.The Boy Scouts of America "perversion files"-  a compendium of pedophiles andhow they operated from the mid-1960s to the early 1990s - were released by courtorder last week. I swear, they are the scariest reading around today.Pick a state or home town or place you once passed through on a cross-countrytrip, and I'll bet you'll find a case there among the nearly 15,000 pages ofhorror.I read through at least 60 files from troops in Virginia, Maryland and theDistrict - letters from scoutmasters detailing suspicions about othervolunteers, letters from parents, court records, arrest reports andheartbreaking accounts of abuse handwritten in awkward boy penmanship.In Maryland, the documents introduce us to Eric A. Griffin, an assistantscoutmaster in Arnold who was booted from the organization in 1974 for allegedlytaking nude photos of boys. The Scouts red-flagged him, and that kept him outwhen he tried to volunteer in Scottsdale, Ariz., in 1976. But two years later,he managed to get back into Scouting in Pennsylvania, according to the files,and was accused of messing around with more boys, including the son of thetroop's scoutmaster.Griffin, who didn't respond to my calls seeking comment, was convicted of lewdand lascivious conduct with a child under 16 in Pensacola, Fla., in 1984.Florida prison records indicate that he served 30 days for that crime.Then there is David McDonald Rankin, an Adelphi troop leader who pleaded guiltyin 1987 in Prince George's County Circuit Court to making boys perform sex actsto get into his special Scout club called "The Rowdies." Rankin, who also didn'trespond to my phone calls, was sentenced to 15 years in prison.But no charges were ever brought against a troop leader who sent graphic lettersto the Scouts he molested in Michigan in 1979. He then tried - unsuccessfully,thank goodness - to rejoin Scouting when he moved to Maryland. The handwrittenletters in the court files are stomach-churning, with lots of detail andinstructions to rip them apart and throw them away.The parents, according to the file, never went to the police. I tracked the guydown but couldn't find any criminal charges against him or any appearance on asex-offender registry. I doubt that means there haven't been more victims.The release of the files has been an embarrassment to the Boy Scouts, which in2010 finally adopted a policy of requiring local Scout leaders to reportsex-abuse allegations to police."There have been instances where people misused their positions in scouting toabuse children, and, in certain cases, our response to these incidents, and ourefforts to protect youth, were plainly insufficient, inappropriate or wrong,"Wayne Perry, the national president of the Boy Scouts, said in a statement lastweek. "Where those involved in scouting failed to protect, or, worse, inflictedharm on children, we extend our deepest and sincere apologies."Some of the cases are 50 years old, but the methodology of the perpetratorsdoesn't vary much with the passage of time.The pedophiles jumped from city to city and across state lines. And for many,Scouting wasn't the only access they had to children. Some were teachers,counselors and coaches. There was a child psychiatrist and a man who lived atand ran a mini-golf course.In some of the files, you could see the efforts the Boy Scouts made to contain aproblem when they saw one coming.In 1991, they opened up a file on Michael E. Eck, a Boy Scout volunteer inRichmond. According to his file, he'd allegedly been "playing doctor" with theScouts.One of the West Coast lawyers involved in forcing the Boy Scouts to make thefiles public, Tim Kosnoff, sent me a more detailed file on Eck than the summaryavailable online. In it, boys wrote wrenching letters about a man they trusted.He made them sit back as he "practiced" on their bodies for "a medical exam" hewas supposedly about to take to become an EMT. The Boy Scouts refused to allowEck to volunteer any longer, despite a rambling, desperate letter that'sincluded in his file begging to be let back in.End of story? Sadly, no.Three years later, Eck showed up in a Richmond court on a sexual battery chargeinvolving a minor. That got him a 12-month suspended sentence, Virginia courtrecords show. Then, in 1999, according to court files, he got acquainted withU.S. marshals on a federal child-porn charge. He spent more than three years injail before being released on March 28, 2003, according to federal Bureau ofPrison records.Eck did respond to my repeated calls. These days, besides stints as thecoordinator of wine-country events around central Virginia, he also keepscurrent residence on the Department of Justice's sex- offender registry.Many former scoutmasters live on that Web site, where their repeated offenses,even after the Boy Scouts booted them, are documented.Like David Culver of Elkton, Md., who was sentenced to 51 / 2 years after beingconvicted of assaulting two Scouts in 1979, according to the Boy Scout files.Once he got out, he moved on to victims in Delaware, where he was convicted ofmore sexual assaults in 1996, according to federal sex- offender records.There's one of the more famous villains, Alan Horowitz, a Harvard-educated childpsychiatrist who had a whole repertoire of ways to get to little boys. Beforepleading guilty to assaulting two boys in 1983 in the Western Maryland town ofSmithsburg, he had been a scoutmaster in Georgia. He later made an all-outeffort to reenter Scouting in Iowa.In this case, the Scout's system worked, and the red flags kept him away frommore Boy Scouts. He turned instead to assaulting his patients and thestepchildren of the family he married into in Israel, according to courtrecords. He is in prison in New York. Throw away the key, please.There are plenty of files with horrible, vivid details of the things that theyoung Scouts had the courage to reveal but no adult had the courage to pursue.In 1983, a married scoutmaster in Western Maryland allegedly pursued an EagleScout, repeatedly asking him for oral sex. The Scout finally reported it. Hisparents were outraged but said they didn't want to hurt Scouting. So they agreednot to call police if the Scouts simply removed the guy. What do you think he'sbeen doing since then?Silence, shielding and shunting offenders are ruinous techniques when it comesto something as serious as child sex abuse. That's been true within the CatholicChurch and other religious denominations, our public schools and youth sports.Just this month, we learned that a beloved children's television host inBritain, the late Jimmy Savile, may have abused about 300 victims over severaldecades.I shudder to think about the damage done by troop leaders who were exiled by theBoy Scouts, then disappeared. Research tells us child molesters don't just quit.They go on to live among us, to keep stalking and hurting. They move to otherstates and become summer camp volunteers or work at a Boys & Girls Club. Andthey know how to put themselves in places where we trust them with our children.Jerry Sandusky, anyone?Maybe the spate of high-profile sex-abuse scandals of the past decade means weare finally getting past our secrecy and denial. But even today, when it comesto keeping our kids safe, paranoia can be a healthy thing.dvorakp@washpost.comTwitter: @petuladTo read previous columns, go to washingtonpost.com/dvorak.CORRECTION-DATE: November 7, 2012CORRECTION:In the Petula Dvorak column in the Oct. 26 Metro section, about the Boy Scouts'"perversion files," the omission of a word resulted in a sentence that saidMichael E. Eck, one of the men named in the files, "did respond" to phone callsseeking comment. Eck did not respond to repeated calls.