Whoa, Virginia. You're totally confusing us here.Rainbow flags and Old Sparky in the same week?When news broke Thursday that Virginia Attorney General Mark R. Herring willfight the state's ban on same-sex marriage - after he voted for it eight yearsago - it seemed that the time had come to start calling the commonwealth NewDominion.But before you think that Virginia is going all squishy liberal, the state Houseof Delegates (remember, those guys who proposed that whole vaginal probe thing)overwhelmingly passed a bill to make the electric chair the default method ofexecution if lethal injection is not available. Right now, electrocution is usedonly if a Death Row inmate requests it.Turns out that the European manufacturers of the drugs used in lethal injectionswon't sell them to executioners anymore, so it's becoming harder for states toeuthanize people. In most business scenarios, when you're cut off, it meansyou're doing something pretty bad.But Virginia's leaders didn't use the moment as an opportunity to look back onthe cases of 16 men in Virginia who have been exonerated by the InnocenceProject - including Earl Washington Jr., who came within days of being executedfor a murder and rape he did not commit - and rethink the state's dedication toexecutions.Instead, they want to go all 1800s on us with the electric chair, ensuringthat's how the 10 people on Death Row will die.In many ways, Virginia offers a fascinating window on American culture rightnow. We're undergoing swift change in some areas, but in other ways we remainpretty draconian.And when you look at how changes, or the lack of them, are playing out acrossthe country - from marriage equality to minimum wage laws to family leavepolicies - we Americans come off as pretty schizophrenic in our values.For example, 33 states, including Virginia, still ban same-sex marriage, whilethe rest have moved to legalize it.So Herring's plan to fight the law is huge news. Legalizing same-sex marriagewould put Virginia on the right side of history - unlike in the battle forinterracial marriage. In 1958, the U.S. Supreme Court overturned the arrest ofMildred and Richard Loving by Virginia authorities for violating state laws,clearing the legal path to marriage for interracial couples across the country.This time, the commonwealth has a chance to do it right from the start.And the change in Virginia's same-sex equality laws could be what spurs changeacross the rest of the country.This is Virginia's new role in America, apparently. During the last twopresidential elections, the pundit chatter was all about Virginia becoming oneof the hot, new swing states.From 1968 to 2008, Virginians had steadfastly voted for Republicans. But duringthe past two national elections, the increasingly diverse state has shiftedDemocratic and become a bellwether state by voting for President Obama.Herring said he changed his mind on rights for same-sex couples because theworld around him - including his kids - helped him evolve."I had voted against marriage equality eight years ago, back in 2006, eventhough at the time I was speaking out against discrimination and ways to enddiscrimination, and I was wrong for not applying it to marriage," Herring toldNPR's "Morning Edition" on Thursday. "I saw very soon after how that hurt a lotof people, and it was very painful for a lot of people."Herring's thoughtful evolution brings us back to Old Sparky.Wouldn't it be wonderful to see the state's delegation rethink its status as oneof 32 states that still support the death penalty?Recently, legislators have been conflicted about the practice, anyway. Theytried to expand capital punishment to include accomplices four years ago, butthat bill was shut down by the Senate Courts of Justice committee after a stateexecutioner, Jerry Givens, testified about the difficulty of carrying out 62executions over the course of 25 years."The people who pass these bills, they don't have to do it," he said afterward."The people who do the executions, they're the ones who suffer through it."Keep listening, Virginia. Keep showing the rest of the country how to gracefullygrow into change.petula.dvorak@washpost.comï...OE For previous columns, go to washingtonpost.com/dvorak.