MY BROTHER BEAT MY MOM AND DAD AND SISTER TO DEATH WITH A BASEBALL BAT.At approximately 3 a.m. on April 27, 1984, 16-year-old Jody Gilley spoke thesewords to a 911 operator in Jackson County, Ore. Two hours before, the overheadlight had flickered on in the attic bedroom she occupied in her family's whiteclapboard house. Then the door to her bedroom opened, and her 18-year-oldbrother, Billy, walked in with their 11-year-old sister, Becky. He told Jody tokeep Becky in the room; then he left again. But Jody was half-asleep anddisoriented, and Becky soon followed Billy downstairs.Within a few minutes, Jody was fully awake because Becky had started screaming.When the screams were replaced by a pounding sound, somehow Jody knew Billy washitting Becky with his baseball bat. And somehow she knew he'd already killedtheir parents.Soon Billy came back into Jody's room, his bare chest and arms spattered withblood."We're free now," he said.Then he told her they needed to leave the house. Terrified both by what Billyhad done and what she feared he'd do to her, Jody pulled on clothes and walkeddownstairs, past the body of her sister and near the bodies of her mother andfather, and followed her brother out into the night. They got into theirparents' car and drove to a friend's home. When, at nearly 3 a.m., Billy left toget cigarettes, Jody finally told her friend and the friend's parents what hadhappened and then made her call to 911.Within hours, her brother was arrested. Within days, her parents and Becky wereburied in a cemetery near their Medford, Ore., home. And within months, Jody hadchanged her last name and begun, as she would later call it, the story of herrebirth.ON A BLUSTERY DAY IN FEBRUARY, 24 years later, 40-year-old Jody Arlington sitsin a small glass conference room at the American Film Institute Silver Theatrein Silver Spring with the team behind the Silverdocs: AFI/Discovery ChannelDocumentary Film Festival, which opens this week. They are four women dressedstylishly in shades of black, white and gray, armed with BlackBerries and Maclaptops. They talk frenetically, interrupting one another, planning strategy. Atone point, someone mentions there's a problem."What's going on?" Arlington says. "What do I need to fix?"Someone needs to be called to get entree to someone else. Arlington is acommunications strategist specializing in festival and entertainment publicrelations. She managed publicity for the Sundance Institute in 2006 and 2007 andhas been Silverdocs' public relations manager since 2004. Her contacts in thedocumentary film world run deep. She types an e-mail on her BlackBerry and hitssend. Problem solved.Leaving the theater after the meeting, Arlington sets a pace so rapid that itborders on a run. "I feel like if I slow down, I'll lose my balance," she says.It's an observation that also applies to the way she's lived since she ended oneself and determinedly set out to create another.Her re-creation has been successful. She has been a manager at public affairsfirm Burson-Marsteller and a vice president at communications firmFleishman-Hillard, as well as chief of staff of President Bill Clinton'sNational Campaign Against Youth Violence. She is now building a thrivingentertainment division at communications firm Weber Merritt and is one of thefounders, and the director, of the Impact Film Festival, which will, for thefirst time, present films dealing with key social issues to lawmakers,candidates and delegates at the Democratic and Republican national conventionsthis summer.Arlington has also created a satisfying personal life in Washington. She ismarried to Franck Cordes, director of marketing and administration for theFoundation for the National Archives, and has a circle of loyal and lovingfriends who make up what she calls her "found family." On weekends, she wearsher auburn hair in pigtails and knocks around Georgetown. She drinks Starbuckslattes, reads trashy novels as well as serious literature, watches movies in bedon a jumbo-size, flat-screen TV. She is both ambitious and goofy. She laughsoften. She is, as she says, "shockingly normal."But normalcy is a significant accomplishment for someone whose past contains oneof the most abnormal acts imaginable, as the world will learn this week with thepublication of While They Slept: An Inquiry Into the Murder of a Family, anonfiction account of the Gilley family killings written by Kathryn Harrison. Itis the story of a brother who claims he committed murder to protect his oldestsister; and it is also the story of that surviving sister, who views her brotheras a tormentor -- not a protector -- and so must live as the recipient of anunwanted "gift." In delving into murder, psychology and family dynamics, thebook explores terrain similar to that of Truman Capote's In Cold Blood. But, inWhile They Slept, the murderer and victims share the same blood, creating a taleat once gothic and Greek, Freudian and Shakespearean, taboo and tragic.As much as Arlington wants the story to be told, and as much as she hopes somegreater good will come of it, this is an unsettling moment for her. Within thepages of the book, she is reunited with Jody Gilley -- her former self -- andwith Billy Gilley Jr., the brother she hasn't seen since she testified for theprosecution at his murder trial 24 years ago. She has also learned that Billyrecently won the right to a resentencing hearing on the basis of ineffectivecounsel during the sentencing phase of his trial. In 1984, he was sentenced to90 years in prison without parole: three consecutive life sentences for histhree murdered family members. The resentencing hearing, which is expected totake place within a year or so, presents the possibility that he could be freedafter serving 60 years, or 30 years, or even sooner, a possibility Arlingtonwills herself not to dwell upon. "With Billy out of prison," she says simply, "Iwouldn't feel safe."For nearly a quarter-century, Arlington has survived -- has thrived -- by racingtoward a future of her own making. Now her past is racing toward the present.IN THE WAKE OF THE MURDERS, people advised Jody Gilley to return to normal asquickly as possible, "but there wasn't a normal to go back to," she says. Nearlyevery trace of what had been her life was obliterated on that April night in1984. And, too, life in her family had never been normal or happy or nurturing-- it was nothing she wanted to return to.Linda and Bill Gilley Sr. were high school dropouts and itinerant farm workerswho married young and immediately began the pattern of frequent and frequentlyviolent fights over Bill's drinking and infidelity that would characterize theirentire marriage. After years of living hand-to-mouth, migrating between Oregonand California for seasonal work, the Gilleys settled in a rented house inMedford, then a small, rural town in southwestern Oregon, in 1970, and Bill Sr.found work as a tree trimmer. That led to more financial stability -- in 1976,the family bought the clapboard house at 1452 Ross Lane, where the murders wouldoccur eight years later -- but not to more emotional stability. The fightsbetween Bill and Linda continued, now with an exacerbating factor: Billy Jr. Bythe time Billy was in second grade, as Harrison writes, he was having trouble inschool and difficulty getting along with other kids. By age 10, he was theleader of a shoplifting ring. At 15, he was arrested for burglary and arson anddescribed as a "very troubled young man" by a caseworker. At 16, he'd droppedout of high school.In addition to the offenses Billy committed that were recognized publicly, therewere others known only by Jody. Soon after the Gilleys moved into the Ross Lanehouse, 12-year-old Billy discovered a stash of prescription drugs left by thehome's previous owners. Stocking his Hot Wheels miniature car case with thebottles of pills, Jody says, Billy planned to take the case to school and stylehimself as a drug dealer. When Jody discovered the case and hid it as a prefaceto telling their mother, Billy "chased me around the house and the yard,wrestling me down and sexually attacking me," she says. By attack, she meansthat he put his hand up her skirt and tried to shove his entire hand into hervagina. "I didn't tell my parents because I was too afraid of him."She was 9 then. Soon afterward, she began waking up at night with the unsettlingsense that she'd been touched while she was sleeping. "Eventually, I found Billyin my room in the middle of the night, and he'd have lame excuses, and I put twoand two together," she says. "When I saw it was real, it was a relief." Thistime she did tell her mother. "But then my parents didn't believe me."Linda and Bill Sr. bullied their children, as well as each other, Jody says.While Billy faced the brunt of his father's physical abuse -- whipping, hitting,punches in the face, often accompanied by demeaning taunts -- Jody fell prey toher mother's outbursts and bizarre punishments. Linda Gilley would sit on Jodyand blow cigarette smoke in her face and limit her daughter's access to books,sometimes tearing them up in public if Jody brought them on family outings. Shewould ground Jody for months on end for small infractions. Her mother's behaviortoward her was psychologically abusive, Arlington says. "There isn't really away to convey the atmosphere, the unrelenting chaos and unpredictability andmeanness."But what devastated Jody most was that her mother didn't believe her when shetold her parents that Billy was molesting her. And later, when Jody told hermother that her father had propositioned her -- that, six months before themurders, she says, her father had offered her "all the money in his pocket if hecould fool around with me" -- her mother also did not believe her, at least notat first.In Billy's mind, Harrison writes, their shared suffering at the hands of theirparents made him and Jody allies. But because she felt victimized by Billy aswell as by her parents, Jody says, she viewed him as a predator -- not adefender or even a fellow prisoner. He was another threat she had to guardagainst, another reason to escape into a world of her own, when her motherallowed it. "My allies," she says, "were the alternative realities in books."So, in the wake of the murders, there was no "normal" to return to. Insteadthere was shock, grief, worry and guilt -- and also opportunity. Suddenly,orphanhood had freed Jody Gilley to re-create herself and her life. She chose aguru to help in that re-creation: Thad Guyer, her legal aid attorney, who wouldbecome her legal guardian.ON THE DAY AFTER THE MURDERS, Guyer was in criminal court in Medford on otherbusiness when Billy Gilley's arraignment came up. He remembers hearing the judgeread the murder counts -- ending each with the statement "by killing said personwith a baseball bat" -- but he didn't think much of it. "For me, it was justanother murder," says Guyer. "I was back out at the office the next day, and Iremember my receptionist coming in and saying: 'Hey, you know those murders?Well, the sister who escaped is out in our waiting room, just walking around.She wants to see a lawyer right away.' "Jody had come to the county legal aid office for help applying to be adopted bya neighboring family with whom she was staying. "She was obviously a veryintelligent girl," says Guyer, who was a 34-year-old Vietnam vet who had handledcivil rights cases in the South before coming to Medford in 1982. "But you don'tgo from 'My parents were killed last night' to 'These people want to adopt metoday.' I counseled her that what she should let me do was a guardianship."A few days later, Jody asked Guyer to accompany her to the funeral for herparents and Becky. "If you're a criminal lawyer and see all kinds of horriblethings, you're not affected by this situation," he says. "I think I wasinstantly the most credible person in her life because I was detached. I'mcertain everyone else was asking, 'What happened?' . . . I didn't try to comforther. I just did lawyerly stuff."Within a few months, Jody's living arrangement at the neighbors' soured, andGuyer worked to find other options. One was with the local victim's assistanceadvocate, and two were with local families with children. "I said she had topick," says Guyer. "She said: 'I don't want to live with any of them. I want tolive with you.' "Guyer told her his marriage was on the rocks, and he wasn't sure where he wasgoing to be living. But Jody had identified him, she says, as "a rational,knowledgeable person who wanted to help me, treated me like an adult andprovided counsel, while also being fun and cool, or trying to be cool. I wasattracted to his level of insight and analysis," she says. "It felt right, forwhatever reason."Guyer relented, and soon Arlington was living with him -- first in the house heshared with his wife and then in a house he shared with a roommate -- flying toCalifornia in his private plane and attending rock concerts with him. It was onthe way to a Billy Idol concert in Los Angeles in August 1984 that she chose hernew name. In a few weeks, she would start 11th grade, and she knew that studentswhose last names started with the letters at the beginning of the alphabet gotto enroll in classes first. So, she made a decision: The next street name shesaw that began with A through F would be her new last name. Arlington Boulevardcame into sight, and Jody Arlington was born.Arlington's life with Guyer was far removed from anything she had everexperienced as a member of the Gilley family. Not only was she getting to fly ina private plane -- she was soon learning how to fly one herself. But the mostradical change Guyer offered was his belief in her. He told her she was smartand talented, a "quality person." He had attended Georgetown University, and hesaid that, with strategy and determination, she could attend Georgetown, too.Guyer recognized that his arrangement with Arlington was unorthodox -- a34-year-old, soon-to-be-divorced man acting as the guardian for a teenage girl.But for him it made sense as both an extension of his work as a legal aidlawyer, and as a kind of karmic payback to two adults who'd helped him in hisyounger years. When Guyer was 17 and homeless in Miami, a family took him in,fed him and gave him mentoring. And when he was a student at Georgetown, hisdebate coach, James Unger, offered him a place in his home for a modest rent,along with several other debaters. "He made me believe in myself and what Icould achieve, and I did the same thing, exactly, for Jody," says Guyer, whocontinues to work part time for the legal aid office in Medford and also doesemployment and whistle-blower cases for his own law firm based out of Miami andSeattle.For a while, Arlington floundered, skipping class and hanging out with"dead-end" kids. But by mid-semester of her junior year -- less than a yearafter the murders -- she had gotten serious about her future. "The jewel hadbeen placed in front of me," she says. "Once I had a goal, I stuffed the painaway and said I'd deal with it later."Of course, she couldn't stuff it away completely. There were times in her lasttwo years of high school when she'd listen to Pink Floyd -- Roger Waters alwaysmade her feel better, she says, because he was so depressed -- and drive by thecemetery where her parents and Becky were buried. Once she thought she glimpsedher mother in a store, and sometimes she'd catch herself wondering when herfather would return home from work. Several times, she saw a beat-up car pullinto a parking lot and feared it might be Billy. And whenever she'd see girlsBecky's age, she'd cringe because her sister wasn't among them. During thenearly two years Arlington lived with Guyer, he heard her talk about the murdersand saw her cry only a few times -- and, when she did, it was almost alwaysabout Becky. Sometimes she would replay the time when the family was shopping atKmart and Becky wanted to borrow $10 to buy a pair of parachute pants. "I hadbeen babysitting, and I had the money, but I wouldn't lend it to her, and Ireally regret that," says Arlington. "Without a doubt, I shed the most tears forBecky. I had grief for what had happened to my parents. But I also had grief forwhat I hadn't gotten from them." But mostly she did not grieve, and mostly shedid not look back, because her grief -- and her past -- was too complicated forher, as a teenager, to understand.It was difficult for many in Medford to understand, as well -- a young mankilling his entire family except for one sister? Since she'd been spared, shemust be complicit, some assumed. "I had friends whose parents forbade them to bearound me," says Arlington. "I was the bogeyman for some people." Rumors swirledthat she was a nymphomaniac, that she ate babies, that she was a Satanist, aswell as that school officials were taking bets on when she would crack up."These things were bemusing -- I was confident in myself and the truth, and theopinions of strangers were mostly irrelevant to me -- but also very painful andinfuriating. I was a teen who wanted acceptance and to fit in."In the end, however, Arlington says she owes a debt of gratitude to those whodoubted her. "Their having written me off and being so callous was soinfuriating, it was a magnificent inspiration to 'show them,' " she says.AFTER GRADUATING FROM HIGH SCHOOL IN 1986, Arlington flew to Washington to beginan internship on Capitol Hill that Guyer had arranged, and, for the next fewyears, a succession of Washington's elite took her under their wings. First, itwas renowned Democratic political consultant Robert Shrum, a former mentor ofGuyer's, who gave her a job at his firm. Then, it was Shrum's now-wife, writerMarylouise Oates, who arranged an interview for Arlington for an internship atthe American Film Institute in Los Angeles. Then, it was TV and film producerand writer/director George Stevens Jr., and his wife, Liz, who offered Arlingtona room in their Georgetown mansion and introduced her to social maven and eventplanner Carolyn Peachey, for whom she worked off and on for almost 20 years.The access to power and wealth was exciting -- how far Arlington was fromMedford, how far from Jody Gilley's attic bedroom -- but alienating. Arlingtonrecalls Shrum once pointed at the TV and asked her if she recognized the manwhose face was on the screen. When she said she didn't, he told her it was HenryKissinger. Another time, she answered the phone at the Stevenses' house to hearVernon Jordan ask, "What's George's handicap?" Later, she said to GeorgeStevens, "I didn't know you had a disability.""It was very surreal. It was the exact opposite of what I'd grown up with," saysArlington. "I came to D.C. with a suitcase of polyester clothes I thought wereprofessional, but were too old for me. It took me forever to learn how to dress.I had to memorize Tiffany's Table Manners for Teenagers because sometimes theStevenses would take me to the Palm. I had social anxiety and shame, but also asense of pride for surviving."Five years after the murders, Arlington entered Georgetown University, and, fromher first moment there, she decided she had to make up for the first 16 years ofher life by reading and learning all she could. Rather than gravitate towardsubjects she loved -- theater, art or opera -- she sought to understand morefully what had happened to her and what the effects would be. To give herselfthe latitude to do that, she designed her own major in interdisciplinary studiesand history."I took courses in memory and amnesia. I did an independent study in orphans,"she says. "I really wanted to know, to the degree that it's knowable, what thesigns of health and un-health are. I didn't want to get stuck. I didn't want tobe depressed and limited by my issues." When she read All Quiet on the WesternFront, she recognized herself in Erich Maria Remarque's descriptions ofsuffering in battle. "We see men living with their skulls blown open," he wrote."We see soldiers run with their two feet cut off, they stagger on theirsplintered stumps into the next shell-hole.""I felt like I was running on emotional stumps, like the foundation had been cutout from under me," says Arlington. "I obsessively collected quotes and passagesfrom literature. When I got down, I would focus on the memorized quotes and liftmyself out of it." Though she saw a therapist intermittently for several yearsat Georgetown, she says the therapy was far less instrumental in her healingthan the comfort, understanding and inspiration she found in literature,particularly Holocaust literature.She immersed herself in the works of Primo Levi, Bruno Bettelheim and ElieWiesel. "I was trying to understand the human psyche in extreme situations," shesays. "I saw that, given the right environment, we are all capable of terribleacts, but also great acts of courage and humanity." While the Holocaustrepresented an especially bleak moment in history, "how the survivors dealt withthat darkness and turned away from the void and found hope and meaning wasinspirational that I could, too." Through her Holocaust studies, Arlington alsoencountered a kind of cold comfort that what she'd suffered had in no wayequaled history's worst suffering. "I had not been raped, mutilated, tortured,starved," she says.She also looked to the writers of Holo-caust literature for insight intosurvivor guilt. She felt guilty because her anger at her parents on the day ofthe murders -- a day when she'd skipped school and they'd found out andthreatened to punish her -- may have given Billy the impetus to carry out thekillings. She felt guilty for not knowing to keep Becky in her bedroom thatnight. And she felt guilty because her life was better -- not worse -- after themurders than before. "There were all these wonderful experiences, and I thought,'How can I enjoy this bounty?' " she says.Like many survivors, Arlington felt a powerful need to testify about what she'dexperienced. At first, she published personal essays under various pseudonyms inGeorgetown's literary magazine. Then, as a senior, she decided to write herthesis about the murder of her family. Her initial plan was to write a straightmemoir, but when she tried to begin, she felt paralyzed. So, instead, she wrotean odd and chilling document called "Death Faces" that narrates the murders inher brother's voice. In its amoral view of violence, "Death Faces" echoes BretEaston Ellis's American Psycho; in the way Arlington comments about herselfthrough the character of Billy, it echoes Gertrude Stein's The Autobiography ofAlice B. Toklas -- except that Arlington uses the technique of indirection notto enhance her greatness, as Stein does, but to excoriate herself. At one pointin "Death Faces," the Billy character says, "Jody Arlington, the sister of asociopathic killer who made it all possible, metamorphosed on the graves of herparents into an academically polished, richly cultured, well-traveled socialclimber." At another, he says, "I suspect Jody will never allow herself to giveme my share of the credit for having blasted her free of the imprisoning gravityof that family which was already dead when I untethered its members from therotting corpse." In "Death Faces," Arlington has Billy express her own worstfears about herself: that she is morally culpable for her family's deaths andmorally reprehensible for benefiting from them.When Arlington circulated her thesis to literary agents after she graduated in1993, all reacted similarly: She had to write the story in her own voice if itwere to have a chance of being published. Some also suggested that she needed tovisit Billy in prison for the story to succeed. But she wasn't sure she couldwrite a memoir and had no desire to visit Billy, and so she put "Death Faces"away. She moved to Spain, where she helped a friend launch a cycling tour, thenlived in New York City, where she joined Equality Now, an international humanrights organization working to end violence and discrimination against girls andwomen, before returning to Washington in the 1990s. In 2000, she says, she begana three-year attempt to recast "Death Faces" as a memoir, trying "every trick inthe writer's handbook," and even working with several ghostwriters. "It was mySisyphean task, and I couldn't do it," she says. "It was too painful. Whenever Iwould sit down to write it, I would fracture."KATHRYN HARRISON FIRST HEARD ARLINGTON'S NAME 13 YEARS AGO during a phoneconversation with her literary agent, Amanda "Binky" Urban. Urban told her she'djust met with a woman whose brother had killed their parents and younger sisterand who wanted to write a memoir about it. "There was something about the storyI found completely compelling. It didn't let go of me, and I kept thinking aboutit, and I really wanted to know why and explore it," says Harrison. "Every yearor so afterward, I'd ask my agent whatever happened with that book, because Iwanted to read it."It came up again in early 2005, while Harrison was in a meeting with Urban andan editor at Random House in New York. "I said again, 'So, whatever happened tothat book?' Binky said, 'Jody is never going to write that book.' ""I'll write it," Harrison said.On March 20, 2005, she sent Arlington an e-mail, explaining her interest. "WereI to consider your life and what came to pass during that life, it would not bemy appropriating your story. No one can do that," Harrison wrote. "I'm justtrying, as you may be yourself, to understand, to get some kind of hold on whathappened to you, and how it is that you continue in your life, when that lifewas violently interrupted and had to be begun again." Harrison ended with, "Ican't tell you how your story has preyed on me -- but I'll try."When Arlington received the e-mail, she was immediately, if cautiously,interested. Harrison is the author of six novels and five nonfiction books, mostnotably the controversial 1997 memoir The Kiss, which chronicles the four-yearsexual affair she had with her father starting at age 20. Arlington had read TheKiss and admired Harrison's "fearlessness and her willingness to go places Iwouldn't go," she says. "I was intrigued with the idea of the story gettingwritten by someone with such writerly gifts, who could crack the puzzle I couldnot."A few weeks later, Arlington met Harrison at Sake Club on Connecticut Avenue NW.Sitting in the restaurant that evening, the two must have appeared to be sisters-- slight women with long hair who talked about the most intimate things.Indeed, Harrison says, she felt a strong kinship with Arlington from thebeginning. As Harrison sees it, both have pasts marked by a taboo so powerfulthat it sets them apart; both, as she writes in While They Slept, "had aprevious self who no longer exists."When Arlington decided to cede her story to Harrison, she felt a huge sense ofrelief, a lightening of her psychic load. "I don't think there is anyone whowould be as interested and engaged in the material as she would be," saysArlington. "She was willing to become obsessed with it."On an evening this spring, Arlington and her husband, Cordes, are holed up intheir cozy Georgetown apartment, eating takeout Asian food and laughing as theyspeculate about a movie version of Harrison's book. "In my fantasy," saysArlington, "Sofia Coppola directs, and Dakota Fanning plays me."Arlington rented this apartment when she returned to Washington and furnished itin one fell swoop out of the Ballard Designs catalogue. "I literally looked at apicture of an entryway in their catalogue and ordered everything and set it upjust like the picture," she says. When Cordes moved in in 2004, he immediatelysaid Arlington's "dentist office art" had to go. It's been replaced with severalpieces the couple has collected, the most striking of which is "Easy Bake Bear"by Ana Bagayan. In the painting, everything is awry: A mouse ignores a hunk ofcheese; a rabbit is blind to a carrot within easy grabbing distance; and alittle girl has just baked the dismembered head of a teddy bear in her Easy-BakeOven. "I love this painting because everyone in it is at war with themselves,"says Arlington.The apartment is devoid of Gilley family mementos save one -- a tiny, framedphotograph that sits on an end table in the living room. In it, Arlington is 5or 6 years old, wearing a princess costume and holding a stuffed horse. Hermother is behind her. The few other artifacts she'd once had from her life asJody Gilley -- including the journals she'd written in almost daily since highschool -- are gone. "After 9/11, I was just struck by all of the paper floatingfrom the sky, and all of a sudden those boxes in my closet seemed burdensome,"she says. "I needed to get rid of them." One day she carried the boxes out tothe curb for the garbage collectors to haul away.The second bedroom in the apartment houses artifacts from the couple's collegedays -- Arlington collected Batman figures, Cordes collected pirate toys -- andtheir ongoing collection of graphic novels. It also serves as a studio forCordes, an artist and musician. There he is working on drawings to accompany astory Arlington wants to create as a graphic novel, one her mother often toldher when she was younger. "It's about a time when I was little and pre-verbal,and Billy and I were playing out front of our house, and our parents wereinside," she says. "All of a sudden, my parents heard me screaming. They runoutside and find me completely covered in [excrement]. I had fallen into an openseptic tank hole. Billy had no trace . . . on him -- he hadn't pulled me out ofthe hole. He said an angel pulled me out." Amid the chaos and horror ofArlington's family history, the story represents a miraculous moment, and a rareflight into fantasy for someone who describes herself as practical and"utilitarian to a fault." It's also a moment that predates Arlington's fear ofher brother.Cordes and Arlington met at a 2004 gala for the National Archives that shehelped plan, and within a year, they'd eloped. "It sounds cheesy, but when Jodytold me her story, immediately there was this common link that we got throughour difficult childhoods," says Cordes, 38. He says his own past includes beingseparated from his mother at age 5 and suffering three months of sexual abusewhile on a sailing trip at age 13.At first, Cordes reacted more hesitantly than Arlington to Harrison's interestin writing a book about the murders. As an artist himself, he understood thatHarrison would write from her own point of view. But he ultimately supported theidea because he knew his wife wanted the story to be told and because he saw herrelief at shedding the responsibility to tell it herself.The relief Arlington felt, however, was soon tempered by the actual process ofcollaborating on the book. Not only did she have to spend more time than she'danticipated talking about her past to communicate her version of the events thatled to the murders, she also had to directly confront Billy's version -- whichis not only different from hers, but based on what she calls several"pathological lies."Billy crafted some of these stories in the direct aftermath of the murders tospread the guilt, Arlington says. And some, she says, he crafted years later tosupport his appeal for a new trial, in which he argued that the murder was aclassic parricide case -- that he'd killed their parents (and, inadvertently,Becky) as a direct result of their abuse of him and Jody. Billy denies that hemolested Jody, claiming instead that their father raped her -- and that he triedin vain to protect her. This Arlington adamantly refutes, saying, "Why would Ideny my father raping me when I admit that he propositioned me and that mybrother molested me?"In 1999, at the request of a federal public defender working on Billy's appealfor a new trial, Arlington completed an affidavit in which she corroboratedBilly's account of physical and emotional abuse inflicted by their parents. Sherefused, however, to validate his characterization of himself as her protector."Some of the most threatening letters he sent from prison said, 'You have totell them how I protected you and Becky,'?" says Arlington. "He never once did."In one letter Harrison quotes in While They Slept, Billy writes, "If you refuseto help me I will still get out, but it may take longer and cost you yourfreedom."But the points at which Billy's and Jody's stories clash most powerfully are inhis claims that on the evening of the murders he told her he was going to killtheir parents and that she signaled her approval. She counters that, while sheand Billy had occasionally fantasized about the deaths of their parents, she wasneither aware of his plan that night nor in support of it. In Billy's version,Jody is complicit, if not in acting with him, then in not acting against him. InJody's version, she is unknowing -- as shocked by the murders as the victimsthemselves.To Harrison, the clash is just one of many in the "Rashomon"-like saga. "I wasworking with a brother and a sister who had conflicting versions, and I wantedto remain faithful to both of their versions and yet also try to reveal whatevertruth I could," she says. "There were only two people in the house that night,Jody and Billy, who can tell what happened. Those are the people who saw whathappened and know what happened, and that's all we have left. And maybe theydon't even know. Memory is so slippery."Just as Arlington had predicted, Harrison became obsessed with the murders,immersing herself in what she came to call "Gilley-alia." She traced both sidesof the family several generations back, tracked down records of Billy's numerousinteractions with police and caseworkers, interviewed friends and neighbors ofthe family, drew one timeline after another to chronicle the progression ofevents leading to the murders. And in November 2005, Harrison traveled to SnakeRiver Correctional Institution in eastern Oregon to interview Billy, who was 40years old and had served 21 years of his 90-year sentence."I had no idea who I was going to meet," says Harrison. "When you think of amurderer, you think of a hardened character. This is a man who is self-effacing,soft-spoken, thoughtful. I never had a sense that I could ask him a questionthat would rattle his equanimity. But I think that's because he's less honestthan Jody. So much of his telling his story to himself has been coming up with anarrative that excuses his behavior. Because he's being punished by the world,he's in a position to justify himself."Arlington "is out in the world, free, in the position to question herself,"Harrison says. "She has a permanent inquisitory trial set up against herself inwhich she searches for moral culpability."In fall 2006, Harrison sent Arlington the first draft of While They Slept,expecting her to correct factual errors and perhaps take issue with some of thebook's conclusions. What Harrison got instead, she says, was a 27-page,single-spaced, e-mailed list of bulleted points from "someone who felt suddenlynaked and terrified -- and misjudged.""Her first response was like an immune response -- she had a really powerfulnegative response," recalls Harrison. "Billy is the problematic character. Imean, he bludgeoned his family with a baseball bat. My effort to humanize him,to make him a person, created a first draft that leaned more toward his tellingof things. That was upsetting to her."Harrison's first draft wasn't just upsetting, says Arlington -- it wasinaccurate. Harrison "wanted a 'he said/she said,'?" says Arlington. "But to sayit's a 'he said/she said' ignores the body of evidence presented by the state ofBilly's previous criminal record and behavioral disorders. There was a recordfrom a doctor saying Billy had a personality disorder and wouldn't learn fromhis mistakes. It showed he had an ongoing personality disorder long before themurders occurred. That really sounded like the Billy I had grown up with."In a way, her feelings about Billy's mental instability echo something she saidto the 911 operator 24 years ago."Do you know why he [Billy] would do something like this?" the operator asked."I mean, there's been a lot . . . We have had a lot of, um, family problems,"Jody Gilley replied. "But I never think anything bad enough to actually killthem."That is yet another point of conflict between Billy Gilley's and Arlington'sversions of the truth. In Billy's telling, their parents were villains, and thechildren were innocent victims. As Arlington sees it, her parents were certainlynot loving or nurturing, but they were victims, too -- victims of their owntroubled upbringings, of extreme poverty, isolation, social alienation and lackof education. "People really do change. I've changed over the decades," shesays. "I can't discount that they might have changed, too."In many ways, Arlington's "immune response" to Harrison's first draft paralleledher reaction several years earlier to a play her friend Roberto Aguirre-Sacasawrote based on her family's slayings. Arlington and Sacasa had met and becomeclose at Georgetown -- Sacasa proposed marriage to Arlington, even though he isgay. After college, he entered Yale University to study playwriting, and when hetold Arlington that he wanted to write about the murder of her family, she wassupportive. However, in his play "Ghost Children," which had its New Yorkpremiere at Second Stage Theatre in 2004, Sacasa changed the facts of themurders "to heighten the drama," he says. In his version, after "Ben Gilley"brings Becky up to "Abby Gilley's" bedroom, Becky asks to get into bed withAbby. Abby refuses and sends her back downstairs to her death.When Arlington saw the play, she burst into tears, as Sacasa recalls. "I said toRoberto, 'That is the most critical thing in my life, and you made it a tawdrything,'?" says Arlington. "There's a million years of guilt in that."Sacasa explained to Arlington that he'd only written a play -- not thedefinitive story of her life. But he was rattled nonetheless. "To see heremotional response, it was kind of a shock. It was the first time I saw the deepwounds there," he says. "I was very scared when it happened, scared that ourfriendship would be irreparably damaged, scared that I had ruined the story forJody." But the friendship survived, and "Ghost Children" continues to beperformed around the country.Sacasa, who also writes comic books and for the HBO series "Big Love," recentlyread the beginning of While They Slept and says he and Harrison share afascination with Arlington's story. "I've always been a little like KathrynHarrison," he says, "attracted to dark or crime stories, lurid stories, horrorstories." And, too, at the time he and Jody became friends, he was still in thecloset and struggling with wanting to become a writer despite his parents'wishes that he pursue law. "I never endured what she did," he says, "but Ifostered a kinship with Jody as a fellow outsider." As Arlington says, "I am amuse to everyone."After receiving Arlington's 27-page e-mail, "I think I went to bed for a month,"says Harrison, only half-joking. Indeed, as it had for Arlington, the bookturned out to be a more difficult collaboration than Harrison had expected. Eventhough Harrison acknowledges a thirst for true crime and "pulpy accounts ofmurder," she found the Gilley family's story harrowing. "You're always lookingfor redemption," she says. "There isn't much in this story."And interviewing Arlington was, she discovered, uncomfortable. "I'm not ajournalist," says Harrison. "I'm not somebody who is used to hammering atpeople. I'm perfectly comfortable vivisecting myself, but it's an entirelydifferent thing to ask someone difficult questions again and again." Harrisonfound she needed to repeatedly ask Arlington for minute and painful detailsabout her family's home life and the murders. "We would march over the sameterritory," she says. "Partly because the story is so shocking and disturbing, Ihad to have it told again and again in order to internalize it, the same way yougo over anything disturbing."As time went on, the process got easier, Harrison says. "She trusted me more,and I trusted myself more. I knew there'd be a time when I would ask a questionthat was painful -- actually, most of the time -- but they weren't questionsintended to inflict pain," says Harrison. "I was doing it in service of aproject we both believed in."At first, Harrison says, she had the "romantic idea" that Jody and Billy mightcome together through her book. Instead, Harrison has become what she calls a"weird sort of liaison in that I have a relationship with the two of them andthey don't have one with each other." Arlington has not seen her brother in 24years, and has not had any contact with him in nearly 10 years -- nor does sheplan to. Harrison has continued to correspond with Billy since visiting him inprison.In 2006 and 2007, Harrison sent Arlington four drafts of the book. "Every time adraft would land, I would dread having to read it," Arlington says. However, thelater drafts were progressively less upsetting to her, she says, and the endresult is a book she is satisfied with.But Harrison's telling is an account of the murder of the Gilley family, not thesurvivor's tale Arlington first decided to write back at Georgetown. And, afterwanting so badly to shed the burden, she now feels an even more powerful need towrite that tale. Even if she risks fracturing her carefully constructed life,Jody Arlington may still, one day, give voice to her own story.Laura Wexler, a Baltimore writer, is the author of Fire in a Canebrake: The LastMass Lynching in America. She can be reached at laura@laurawexler.com She andKathryn Harrison will be fielding questions and comments about this articleMonday at noon at washingtonpost.com/liveonline.