Naturalaw (Darrell Perry) and Black Picasso (Patrick Washington) made theirreputations in the mid-'90s on the poetry slam circuit, first in Washington andthen by traveling around the country. That explains how they recently ended upon the third-season premiere of HBO's "Russel Simmons Presents Def Poetry" undertheir group name, the Poem-Cees.Unfortunately, they couldn't bring along the ensemble's third cog, DJ Stylus(Rhome Anderson). This time, at least, it was no turntables and two microphonesas Naturalaw and Black Picasso reverted to an old standby."Because the show focuses on spoken word, there was no accompaniment except forthe human beat boxes, but HBO let them fly with that because it looked sodynamic on screen," says Stylus, calling "Def Poetry" "an imprimatur. Eventhough we've been doing our thing for a long time, it helps legitimize it."In fact, it took three years of audition tapes and persistent lobbying for thePoem-Cees to land a slot on the show."It was like a whirlwind when it happened because they only let you know a weekbefore," says Naturalaw (Perry is a lawyer by day, hence the name). "Maybe theydon't want you to line up clothing sponsorships before you go on TV!," he jokes."We did it, it was real cool and it seemed to catch people's ears. Hopefully wecan use that to shed some more light on what's going on around here."Immediately, that would include the Poem-Cees' performance Friday at the BlackCat, celebrating the release of their fine new CD, "Paranoia," with acclaimedPhiladelphia spoken-word artist Ursula Rucker and local poet-actor-musician W.Ellington Felton, who guests on the new CD.On a larger level, the Poem-Cees are hoping to shed light on the historicallyunderground yet surprisingly expansive Washington hip-hop community that sprungup in the mid to late '90s, mostly, but not exclusively, around a culturally andcommercially revived U Street at venues such as State of the Union, Metro Cafeand Kaffa House (now all closed). Kaffa House is where Naturalaw and BlackPicasso first hooked up with Stylus, who was house DJ at the weekly "ciphers"(freestyle jam sessions). In fact, two concurrent communities came together inthat era: poets and spoken-word artists who gravitated to Toni Lightfoot's openmics at It's Your Mug, Mangos and Soul Brothers' Pizza, and hip-hop aspirantsdrawn to Toni Blackman's loose-knit performance groups, Freestyle Union and itsfemale counterpart, the Daughters of the Cipher."One did hip-hop, one did poetry, and they cultivated a lot of the poets and MCsin this area," Black Picasso says of the two Tonis. In many ways, the Poem-Ceesrepresent a bridge between the structure and mature subject matter of poetry andthe groove and energy of hip-hop."It brings more focus to the content," says Stylus of the spoken-wordbackground. "Also showmanship, because in spoken word, presentation and styleare up there with your content; it's almost as if presentation and style takesthe place of music. We definitely want there to be weight to our content. . . .It doesn't always have to be serious, but it has to be compelling and the musichas to be just as equal, just as tight as the content.""I think the spoken-word background helps us to become better, more sensitivewriters," Black Picasso adds. "We try to write some stuff that can stand up onthe page as far as the poetry's concerned, but also present some hip-hop thatcan rock a crowd as well. I don't want to say we're the blueprint for thefuture, but our goal is to be extremely good in each aspect as opposed to awatered-down mixture of the two that's trying to lukewarmly capture the flavorof poetry, the flavor of hip-hop."If the Poem-Cees had to list their ancestors, they'd undoubtedly point to De LaSoul and the Jungle Brothers, a pair of Native Tongue archetypes from the late'80s and early '90s. De La Soul, Stylus explains, because "they have a knack foraddressing common themes in a really extraordinary fashion, and that's what wetry to do. They also had two MCs [Posdnous and Trugoy] with distinctivelydifferent styles, like DP and Patrick."Collectively, the Jungle Brothers are "our biggest influence. When they were attheir peak creatively, they were so slick, they sounded like the coolest cats.They epitomized some of the classic aesthetics of hip-hop that we embrace. Alsoon stage they had a DJ [Sammy B] who was the sound provider and I kind of likenmyself to him because he wasn't a flashy DJ, but he was the bedrock for theirtwo MCs [Mike G and Baby Bam], and that's how I conceptualize my role."The MCs in the Poem-Cees do have classic tag-team chemistry and vintageshowmanship."We always have fun in performance," Black Picasso says. "We'll crack jokes,have you rolling in the aisles, hopefully have you singing along. People are notused to smiling or laughing at a hip-hop show -- you want to pull your hat downover your head and nod and dance with an angry expression. That's not where weare so that's where the contrast comes in.""Paranoia," it should be noted, does not reflect that particular approach. "'Paranoia' was Patrick's brainchild concept, showing more of our odd and twistedside," Stylus says. Indeed, "Paranoia" examines some seriously downbeat themes."Keloid Suite" looks at childhood sexual abuse, while "Jay" is a classic hip-hopstory rhyme involving parents' worst nightmares about their children in achaotic world of drugs and violence. There's also the clever pairing of "SIWBY(Commitment)" and ". . . Cheatin' on Me." The first is a serious, extremelysharp dialogue between two males (Naturalaw and W. Ellington Felton) in which arelationship gets chilled by increasingly cold feet."A lot of our peers are settled down or married or both," notes Stylus, whoworks with washingtonpost.com's entertainment guide and MP3 site during the day,"and it's a conversation you hear when you're chillin' with your boys. 'Cheatin'' is about flipping when she cheats, so we go from mature contemplation to blindmanic rage about a relationship."The album's strongest track may be "Glasses," built on Stylus's forebodingmusic. It looks at surprising twists of fate, including the 2000 shooting deathof Howard University student Prince Jones by Carlton B. Jones, an undercoverofficer with the Prince George's County Police Department. After a 10-monthinvestigation, the Justice Department cleared the officer of criminalwrongdoing, finding he acted in self-defense and used reasonable force when hefired 16 rounds into the student's Jeep Cherokee, hitting Prince Jones fivetimes in the back."It seemed to me that was a story that didn't get enough attention, that peoplehad forgotten about it, and I wanted that to be one of the first things Iaddressed on the CD," says Black Picasso, who has a full-time job as adispatcher for the Prince George's County Police Department."I've been working at my job for over 10 years," he says. "I've seen a lot ofthings that I don't agree with, but I can't be as vocal about it on the job asI'd like to be, so this is kind of where I let it out. I expect to hear things,but more indirectly."For tonight's show, the Poem-Cees will expand to include a five-piece band, butthey also perform as a trio or, as on HBO, a duo. According to Naturalaw, "It'scost issues as much as anything: We've kind of been forced to continue doingthat even though the band thing is what we really want to do. We're willing tohit in all formats. When we tour, we still do open mics, get on the list likeeverybody else and tell them we have a show and where we're at. Beingmultifaceted has allowed us to touch people who ordinarily wouldn't even messaround with hip-hop," particularly the adventurous hip-hop the Poem-Cees haverefined over the last few years."I always tell people we did not invent the melding of poetry and hip-hop,"Naturalaw says, "but we've definitely innovated it, I feel. There are not a lotof people doing what we can do. Black Picasso said the other day that, like whenyou're diving, we go for the difficulty points. We may hit them, we may not, butyou know that we're trying something that hasn't been done before."POEM-CEES -- Appearing Friday at the Black Cat. * To hear a free Sound Bite fromPoem-Cees, call Post-Haste at 202-334-9000 and press 8110. (Prince Williamresidents, call 703-690-4110.)