Feeling the cold these days? Then hurry on down to sign up for House MajorityLeader John Boehner's week-long fact-finding trip to Brazil, Colombia andMexico, taking off Jan. 8.The Ohio Republican is scheduled to escape the chill with Democratic Rep. DanBoren (Okla.) and Republican Reps. Dave Camp(Mich.), John Kline(Minn.), DocHastings(Wash.), Devin Nunes (Calif.) and Greg Walden (Ore.). Nunes is the onlyone on this congressional delegation (codel) with a chance of decent weatherback home this time of year.The lawmakers are apparently going to be talking to government officials downthere about drugs, trade and other issues. No word from Boehner's folks aboutthe specifics of the itinerary. (We'll check in later to see whether the Brazilleg included stops in Salvador or Rio.)Worried about leaving your spouse back in the cold? Bring him or her along. It'sno problem - the other spouses are coming. And there'll be three or four staffmembers to help out. Remember, this is pretty much the ultimate in luxurytravel, business class on a government jet, with pampering by military aides.This jaunt, as far as we can tell, breaks only two of the six rules in theofficial, updated In the Loop Guide to Codels. (You can refresh your memory atwapo.st/codel-rules.)Just JoeSpeaking of codels, we're hearing that Sen. Joseph I. Lieberman (I-Conn.) istaking a very, very small delegation to the Holy Land, arriving Dec. 26 with hiswife, Hadassah, via commercial jet. She'll stay behind as the lame-duck senatorand two staffers continue on, perhaps by military jet, to four other countriesin the Middle East. It's a codel of one, since no other senators signed on.Something for the counterDesperate for a gift for that special someone who has everything? Bet he or shedoesn't have the 2012 Counterterrorism Calendar, produced by the NationalCounterterrorism Center.The calendars are given out as a resource guide for law enforcement andintelligence officials and folks in the anti-terror biz, especially for thoseworking in the field. That's why there are pages on ways to spot and deal withbiological and chemical attacks, "suspicious financial activity indicators," orpeople using false passports.A downloadable, interactive version is on the NCTC Web site, www.nctc.gov, butyou can't buy the 5-by-9-inch spiral version anywhere. Got to know someone.That's what makes it special. In addition, the NCTC, trying to reduce costs,printed 25 percent fewer calendars this year, so they're even harder to get.And don't throw out the 2011 calendar. It's the last one featuring the cool $25million reward for Osama bin Laden, who's no longer on the wanted list. (Notipster was deemed worthy of the award.)And it's the only calendar ever to feature Anwar al-Awlaki, the U.S. citizen whoallegedly orchestrated the failed Christmas 2009 underwear bombing of aDetroit-bound jet. That was his last appearance - he was killed by a missilestrike in Yemen in September.Sins of the son?You never call, you never write, you never come around to see us any more. Anold pal, Equatorial Guinea "President" Teodoro Obiang Nguema, now (with Gaddafigone) Africa's longest-serving dictator, was in town last week to receive theBeacon for Africa award at the 2011 Sullivan Honors dinner and didn't even dropus a note.Obiang, Loop Fans may recall, created a bit of a fuss the last couple of yearstrying to get a U.N. Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization (UNESCO)award - which he endowed for five years with a $3 million gift - until the humanrights crowd went ballistic.Seems Obiang, in power since 1979 and once winner of 95 percent of the vote,keeps getting slammed by State Department reports of "arbitrary arrest,detention, and incommunicado detention" and judicial corruption and so on.(Well, nobody's perfect.) So UNESCO backed down.The award is named for Leon H. Sullivan, a minister, civil rights leader andlongtime General Motors board member who authored the Sullivan Principles forbusinesses operating in South Africa during the apartheid era. Past winnersinclude Presidents Bill Clinton and Bush II and Secretaries of State HillaryClinton and Condoleezza Rice.Maybe Obiang didn't call because he was worried about his 44-year-old son,Teodoro Nguema Obiang? Seems the Justice Department recently went to court toseize $70 million of his assets. The department recounted purchases he made inthe last decade or so, such as: a $10 million fleet of cars that included eightFerraris, seven Rolls-Royces, two Lamborghinis, a Porsche, an Aston Martin and aMaserati.Then there was the $38 million Gulfstream and the Malibu villa overlooking thePacific for $30 million, which he decorated last year with Michael Jacksonmemorabilia bought at auctions.The Justice Department said all that was "inconsistent with his salary" of$81,000 a year and came from plundering the tiny country's large reserves ofnatural gas and oil.But wait a minute. If you live really, really frugally . . .Pols gone wildWe wonder whether former congressman Anthony Weinerwould find any consolation inthe fact that even though his political career is toast, he's still a winner . .. of the Loop's title of biggest political scandal of 2011.We asked Loop blog readers to pick the year's worst headline-making naughtiness,and they voted for the New York Democrat's Twit-pic controversy over a slate ofothers. Coming in second was the allegations of sexual harassment and an affairagainst former GOP presidential candidate Herman Cain.You can see the rest of the results on our blog at washingtonpost.com/intheloop.We're not sure what to make of the fact that Loopers think that Weiner's sexlesssex scandal (which some thought he could have weathered if he'd handled itbetter) was worse than the allegations of sexual assault on a teenage girl byformer congressman David Wu (D-Calif.) - that scandal came in last place.But it probably comes down to simple notoriety: Weiner's controversial pics wereshared on Twitter, which is a new frontier for political scandals. And thenthere's his unfortunate, made-for-tabloid-headlines name - and the fact thatthose pictures will live on in Internet eternity.So let's take a moment and thank good old 2011 for bringing us such a rich arrayof poorly behaving pols. Here's the Loop's wish for 2012: May they never learntheir lessons. (Hey, we need the fodder!)With Emily Heilkamena@washpost.comTwitter: @InTheLoopWP