The queen of daytime talk will relinquish her network television throneWednesday to oversee the rest of her sprawling kingdom, which has extended itsreach to film, Broadway, publishing, politics, cooking, fitness, the self-helpindustry, a fledgling cable channel and the throbbing crannies of America'sheart."The Oprah Winfrey Show," one of the most durable and top-rated programs in TVhistory, is ending its quarter-century run with fanfare worthy of a president orpope - or of a woman born into poverty in Mississippi who built a media empirearound her own nationally syndicated talk show."The adversity of her childhood somehow gave her a sense of confidence, a senseof empowerment and a desire to help, and that's part of her basic persona," saysBarbara Walters, who has interviewed Winfrey, 57, on multiple occasions. "Ithink Oprah is a superb performer. . . . She has this amazing capacity to relateto an audience, which made her a star almost from the day she started tobroadcast. It's in her magazine, and it's in everything she does. She talksabout herself, she touches the audience and they become almost one with her."That oneness has fueled Winfrey's show for 25 seasons, through 30,000 guests, amillion studio audience members, legions of viewers in 150 countries, 48 Emmysand the Kennedy Center Honors. Her personal net worth is $2.7 billion, accordingto Forbes, making her the only female African American billionaire at present.She's used her daytime platform to establish a production company (with projectsin film, TV and Sirius XM satellite radio), a glossy national magazine (with 2million subscribers) and a now-shuttered charity wing (which raised more than$80 million and constructed schools in South Africa).Winfrey's journey to the center of American consciousness started on Sept. 8,1986. The first national episode of "The Oprah Winfrey Show" was titled "How toMarry the Man/Woman of Your Choice."Wednesday's taped finale will be her 4,561st show, the last in a long line ofepisodes featuring aspiration as entertainment. With Oprah as its guide, thecountry learned how to find its dream partner, how to dance like Tina Turner,how to negotiate racism and religion-based fear. "Live your best life," imploresthe cover of every "O" magazine, whose readers are 88 percent female."Speaking for those of us who were deeply involved in civil rights, she did morefor African Americans than all of us put togther," says Del. Eleanor HolmesNorton, who witnessed Winfrey's efforts to raise funds for the National Councilof Negro Women in the District. "A black woman becoming an icon of educated,working-class white women is beyond anything any of us could've hoped to do. Youcan't love Oprah and hate black people. And when you consider how much drudgeryis on television, to see this woman who stands for reading books, for makingwomen think better of themselves, for making people feel guilty if they hatedother people - she's a phenomenon the likes of which this society has neverseen."The cultural legacy of "The Oprah Winfrey Show" is at once intensely personaland too galactic to fathom.Without "The Oprah Winfrey Show," where would we be? We wouldn't have T-shirtbedsheets, footless pantyhose or the "The Color Purple," the musical. Wewouldn't have a council of chatty behavioral gurus upon whom Oprah hasbequeathed fame and success: financial taskmaster Suze Orman, cooking spriteRachael Ray, decor wizard Nate Berkus, and doctors Oz and Phil, who've made ittheir business to be in ours."Oprah" told us there is no shame in being the victim of sexual abuse. "Oprah"told us how to find our correct bra size.Without "The Oprah Winfrey Show," some of us would never have picked up Tolstoyor dropped 15 pounds (and then gained them back again). Without "Oprah," we, asa country, would not be talking about so many issues so candidly, according toCBS chief executive Leslie Moonves."We wouldn't have nearly as much of the dialogue we have throughout Americaabout what's happening in our society," says Moonves, whose CBS Corporationdistributes the show. "She sort of introduced what the world was like and letpeople think and talk and go from there. . . . I think it allowed other morningshows - including 'The Early Show,' and the 'Today' show and 'Good MorningAmerica,' which preceded her - to change their dialogue, to be more frank, moreconversational, more relatable. It wasn't 'I'm going to tell people things' asopposed to 'I'm going to open the dialogue.' "So let's talk, America. An Oprah-size hole is about to appear in daytimetelevision. How do you feel?"I don't remember a time without Oprah," says District resident JenniferChristian, 26, as she got a pedicure at Patsy's Nail Bar at 20th and I streetsNW onTuesday afternoon while the penultimate "Oprah" show played on a TV. "She'sa strong female role model who transcends generations.""I think she's a strong, empowered female hero," said Christian's mother, Diane,as Jerry Seinfeld paid tribute to Winfrey onscreen. "And she is kind andempathetic to the people around her."Oprah positioned her show at the vanguard of national discourse. Oprah wastalking about AIDS on national television in 1987. Oprah, newly svelte in 1988,wheeled out 67 pounds of fat on a Radio Flyer wagon, launching the nationalpastime of battling lard in a public forum (see: "The Biggest Loser"). Oprah wasmoved to tears by non-famous guests such as her fourth-grade teacher, the womanwith 92 personalities and the 12-year-old with muscular dystrophy. Oprahgleefully bellowed the names of celebrity friends who'd stop by for a safe-zonechat ("JOHN TRAVOLTAAA!"), and showered audiences with expensive gifts donatedby major corporations ("You get a car! You get a car!").America, though, has been slowly turning away from Oprah, or at least Oprah'stime slot. An average of 12.6 million people watched each episode during herpeak season, 1991-92. This past season the number was just over 6 million -still topping other daytime progams but eroding alongside soap operas, asnetworks fend off the creep of cable TV by scheduling reality shows and ensemblegabfests like "The View" and "The Talk."But "The Oprah Winfrey Show," for all its longevity, was merely the root systemfor the flowering of the Oprah brand, embodied by a question that a followermight ask herself in a moment of uncertainty: "What would Oprah do?"She'd read Faulkner. Over the past 10 years Oprah's Book Club - which restoredclassics to the bestseller lists and plucked new talent from obscurity -generated 22 million sales of specially branded editions of her selections.What would Oprah do?She'd eat hickory-smoked turkey from East Texas. Soon after she featured aturkey supplier on her annual "Favorite Things" show in 2003, the company rangup $1 million in sales, according to Bloomberg Businessweek.What would Oprah do?She'd vote for Barack Obama. Her May 2007 endorsement delivered Obama an"instrumental" 1 million votes over the competitive Democratic primary season,according to Northwestern University marketing professor Craig Garthwaite, whoco-wrote a 2008 study on celebrity endorsements in politics."The Oprah Winfrey Show" has wrested the concept of women's empowerment fromfeminists and put it in the hands of the masses, according to Marjorie Jolles, aprofessor of women's and gender studies at Roosevelt University."I would even call it a spiritual empowerment," Jolles says. "I see Emerson asher main rhetorical ancestor, in thinking that the individual is something thatunfolds in a divinely-inspired way."Oprah's own sense of destiny - "I have always known that I was born forgreatness in my life," she told Walters in 1988 - has made her the subject ofadoration as well as derision and skepticism."She believes more in inspiration and enlightenment, when the science showspeople need specific behavior change - her legacy is what I would callconscious-raising and awareness-inducing, but not behavior-changing," says JohnNorcross, a professor of clinical psychology at the University of Scranton whowas scheduled to appear on Winfrey's show to challenge her endorsement of "TheSecret," a 2006 self-help book that linked positive thinking to real-worldresults. (His appearance was canceled after the book's author declined toparticipate, according to Norcross.)Winfrey's commanding onscreen presence has inspired parodies of her pomposityand wealth on sketch shows like "Saturday Night Live" and "MADtv." Her show wassuch a rich source of comedy because "she is a deity and reminds us of it," sayscomedian Kathy Griffin, who regularly lampoons Winfrey in her stand-up act."Even while she's doing an incredible act of goodwill, she's so over-the-top."http://www.washingtonpost.com/wp-dyn/content/article/2010/12/03/AR2010120302795.htmlIn a final act ofOprahness, it seems as though Oprah was her own last guest, according toaudience members interviewed by the Chicago Tribune after the finale's tapingTuesday.But with the Oprah Winfrey Network barely six months old, "final" and "last"aren't in Winfrey's vocabulary. In the mind-over-matter physics of her universe- which is our universe - "the end" is always just "the beginning."zakd@washpost.comStaff writer Vanessa Williams contributed to this report.