PAKISTANI President Pervez Musharraf complains that his country is unfairlyportrayed as a place where rape and other violence against women are rampant andfrequently condoned. In fact, it deserves such a reputation. According toPakistani human rights groups, thousands of attacks are reported every year,including gang rapes and "honor killings" of women who are accused of havingaffairs or who refuse an arranged marriage. Most of these attacks go unpunished.So retrograde are Pakistan's laws that there are more than 1,500 women in prisonas a result of rapes  --  they were prosecuted for adultery  --  while arrestsof men occur in only about 15 percent of reported cases.Gen. Musharraf, too, deserves the reputation he is earning as a ruler who caresmore about how he is perceived in the West than in implementing the policies heclaims to espouse, or even in speaking the truth. The general, who seized powerin a coup six years ago, has reneged on promises to retire from the army orrestore democracy. He has not carried out the reform of Islamic religiousschools that he promised in 2001. He has allowed the extremist Afghan Talibanmovement to base itself in Pakistan's western provinces with virtual impunity.He has repeatedly insisted, almost certainly falsely, that Osama bin Laden isnot in Pakistan. All the while he has gone on collecting hundreds of millions ofdollars in aid each year from the Bush administration, which accepts his wordsand ignores most of his actions.Gen. Musharraf claims to champion a "moderate Islam" that respects the rights ofwomen. But when Mukhtar Mai, a victim of a gang rape whose attackers have notbeen punished, tried to visit the United States earlier this year, the presidentbarred her from leaving the country. In an interview with The Post last month,he claimed that he had relented. But then he said this: "You must understand theenvironment in Pakistan. This has become a money-making concern. A lot of peoplesay if you want to go abroad and get a visa for Canada or citizenship and be amillionaire, get yourself raped." This statement was, as Pakistani activists andthe Canadian government soon pointed out, an outrageous lie. There is only oneknown case of a rape victim moving to Canada, a doctor who was assaulted by amilitary officer. A far more common outcome for rape victims is to be ostracizedby their communities or jailed.When Gen. Musharraf's statement provoked an uproar, he responded with anotherlie: He claimed that he had never made it. In fact, a recording of him speakingis available on The Post's Web site, washingtonpost.com. His words are quiteclear. "These are not my words, and I would go to the extent of saying I am notso silly and stupid to make comments of this sort," the general said. Well, yes,he is.