It has been a dizzying few weeks for women in the workplace.Forty years after the Civil Rights Act and just days after news of high-profilesex-discrimination cases involving Wal-Mart and Morgan Stanley, a new report bythe National Partnership for Women & Families has found that women of all racesare still being discriminated against in the workplace.Title VII of the Civil Rights Act prohibits employers from discriminating basedon race, color, religion, sex or national origin. And although women have madesignificant progress since the act was passed, they still face discrimination,and often in much more complex ways, the report concluded.The partnership, founded in 1971 as the Women's Legal Defense Fund, worked with10 years' worth of discrimination claims provided by the Equal EmploymentOpportunity Commission, and broke down the charges by race, age and ethnicity.The study, "Women at Work: Looking Behind the Numbers 40 Years After the CivilRights Act of 1964," concluded that "women of color as well as older andimmigrant women are especially likely to experience certain types ofdiscrimination."Data showed that claims of sexual harassment and sex discrimination continue torise, but the number of claims filed by white women have decreased, while thosefiled by black and Hispanic women have increased."We wanted to look behind the numbers, because we thought there was a storythere about what's happening in workplace," said Jocelyn Frye, director ofworkplace fairness programs at the partnership and primary author of the study."We get frustrated when people talk generically about women or discrimination.We know there's a more nuanced story.""We agree wholeheartedly that sex discrimination against women is still a majorproblem in the workplace," said David Grinberg, EEOC spokesman. The EEOC did a"Women of Color" study about six months ago with similar findings. "Women ofcolor face a double dose of discrimination. It is a lingering problem we'readdressing," Grinberg said.The data confirm, Frye said, that people are being discriminated against in allof the categories listed in Title VII, and more so if they are women. Thenumbers illustrate "the combination of gender, race, and ethnicity can play arole in how different women are treated -- or mistreated -- at work," she wrote.The data also show that even a decrease in a particular type of claim can hideanother piece of the story. For example: The overall number ofage-discrimination claims has gone down during the past decade. But when thepartnership broke those claims down by race and other characteristics of thecomplainant, it found that age-discrimination claims filed by women hadincreased."One of the big conclusions we drew from all that is we need to look . . . atnumbers in more sophisticated ways than they've been doing, so we can see howit's happening and we can enforce" anti-discrimination laws, Frye said.Grinberg said the statistics the EEOC gave the partnership are in fact used bythe EEOC in its enforcement.The data showed that during the past decade, the number of sex-discriminationcharges filed with the EEOC increased by 10.5 percent. White women file moreclaims than women of color do, but white women's claims, while going up and downfrom year to year, declined 11.5 percent from 1992 to 2003.Meanwhile, black women filed 3,898 sex discrimination charges in 1992, and 4,686in 2003, a 20 percent increase. Hispanic women filed 1,052 charges in 1992 and1,763 charges in 2003, a 68 percent increase."A significant portion of the increase in sex-discrimination claims over thelast decade can be traced to the growing number of women of color filingcomplaints," the report says.The report found that sexual harassment claims have increased 22 percent duringthe past decade. And it was not only women who filed: Men filed 14.7 percent ofsexual harassment charges in 2003, up from 9 percent a decade ago.Meanwhile, complaints filed by women who face discrimination because they are ormay become pregnant have increased by 39 percent during the decade, even as thenation has seen a 9 percent drop in its birth rate, according to the report.The increase can be at least partially attributed to the fact that there aremore women in the workforce today, but that instances of discrimination stilloccur is disappointing and frustrating, Frye said. Although the partnershiptimed the report to be released near the anniversary of the Civil Rights Act, itwas by accident that it also was released as the Wal-Mart and Morgan Stanleysex-discrimination cases became more public. Those cases, Frye said, althoughnot surprising, are still "a little shocking.""It sort of gives you great pause, and you think, 'How can this still behappening?' But on other hand, if you look closely at the data, this is not anew story," she said. "Discrimination is still out there."Join Amy Joyce from 11 a.m. to noon Tuesday at www.washingtonpost.com to discussyour life at work. You can e-mail her at lifeatwork@washpost.com.