Sens.  Cory Booker  (D-N.J.) and  Mitch McConnell  (R-Ky.) share at least onething.Campaign donors.Booker, a Senate newbie, and McConnell, the Senate minority leader, show updipping into the same donor pool more than any other opposing-party members ofCongress. They shared 74 donors in the first year of this election cycle.This comes from a fascinating data dive from the Center for Responsive Politicsthat broke down which politicians have donor overlap. As the CRP points out,just shy of two-tenths of 1 percent of American adults have donated to campaignsthis year, so the pickings are slim.Cashing checks makes strange bedfellows - a politician isn't going to care whoelse's bed a donor has slept in (figuratively, of course).Booker also shares donors with other top Republicans: House Majority LeaderEric Cantor  (Va.) and Senate Minority Whip  John Cornyn  (Tex.).And McConnell has donors in common with other Democrats, including Sens.  MarkWarner  (Va.) and  Kay Hagan  (N.C.).Politicians from the same party, as you'd expect, share donors at a higher rate.McConnell also tops that list, with 415 of his donors contributing to Cornyn aswell. Another obvious duo is Hagan and Sen.  Jeanne Shaheen  (D-N.H.), who areboth running in high-profile, competitive reelection campaigns this year. Theyshare 387 donors.We were curious who these deep-pocketed party hoppers are. Our friends at theCRP dug up their data and shared the 74 names. They include  Lawrence Salva ,senior vice president of Comcast;  William Lauder , chairman of Estée Lauder;and  Eric Schmidt , executive chairman of Google.No sex, pleaseFictional vice president Selina Meyer was adamant on a recent episode of "Veep":A female politician should not remind voters that she is, in fact, a woman. "No,no, no! I can't identify myself as a woman - people can't know that," Meyer toldher staff.With Meyer's declaration still fresh,  Terri Lynn Land , the presumptive GOPnominee for a U.S. Senate seat in Michigan, released a TV ad this weekresponding directly to charges that Republicans are waging a "war on women."Doing exactly what  Julia Louis-Dreyfus 's character had exasperatedly warnedagainst, Land tells voters, "As a woman, I might know a little bit more aboutwomen than  Gary Peters  [her likely Democratic opponent]."Land is not the first, nor is she likely to be the last, female politician tohighlight her sex. Contrary to Meyer's belief that drawing attention to yourgender is bad politics, real-life politicians have often employed the phrase "asa woman," or some variation of it.Using the Sunlight Foundation's Capitol Words tool, we found several instancesof female members of Congress playing up their gender during policy debates. Atleast two examples involved floor speeches on abortion - exactly the hot-buttonissue the Meyer team was mulling over when a staffer suggested that she use thephrase "as a woman" to explain her position.During debate in January over federal funding for abortion, Rep.  Diane Black(R-Tenn.) said:"Now, despite the legislation's bipartisan support, we have heard more than afew mischaracterizations of this bill from our colleagues across the aisle, andas a woman, I reject these false attacks. This legislation is not about takingaway anyone's choice. It is about giving choice to the nearly two-thirds ofAmericans who don't want their hard-earned tax dollars funding the destructionof innocent life."In July 2012, Rep.  Martha Roby  (R-Ala.) said:"In sitting here listening to debate, I want to get a few things straight. Firstof all, I am a woman, and I have not declared war on myself. Second of all, thisis not a direct challenge to  Roe v. Wade . This is a direct challenge tocruelty to unborn children. Currently, the policy in D.C. legally allowsabortion for any reason until the moment of birth."Abortion isn't the only issue that puts female politicians on the defensive. InApril, during a floor debate on equal pay for women, Sen.  Kelly Ayotte(R-N.H.) said, "Frankly, as a woman, I would like the opportunity to outperformand to be paid more."And in June 2013, during a debate about sexual assault in the military, Rep.Marsha Blackburn  (R-Tenn.) said, "As a woman and as a strong supporter of ournation's military, I find it absolutely appalling that any woman who has beenthe victim of crime should have to fear reporting her perpetrator for fear ofretaliation."Of course, "Veep" fans know that at the end of the episode, Meyer contradictedherself. During an appearance on "Good Morning America," she answered a questionabout abortion with "As a woman myself . . . "That's Franklin, not -ghaziAt the risk of abusing an overused Washingtonism, we could observe thatSecretary of State  John Kerry  determined pretty early in his tenure at FoggyBottom that if you want a friend in this town, get a dog.Well, Kerry's best friend,  Ben , affectionately known as "diplomutt" and namedfor  Benjamin Franklin , had quite the week in the spotlight. Kerry set up aTwitter account for his yellow Lab and tweeted his pup a happy-birthday messageTuesday. Almost instantly, Ben, without any tweets of his own, had more than 600followers.Then, on Thursday, Kerry brought Ben to a 'Take Your Child to Work" event at theState Department. Ben behaved for most of the U.S. top diplomat's brief remarks,though he did jump on the female sign-language interpreter.The official State Department transcript from the event includes: "Whoops. Sit,sit, sit, sit. He's learning. He's one year old yesterday, two days ago. Whoops.(Laughter.) Sit. He's learning, slowly. He's getting there."Should Kerry consider trying some of those obedience techniques on  VladimirPutin ?- With Colby Itkowitzal.kamen@washpost.comcolby.itkowitz@washpost.comThe blog: washingtonpost.com/intheloop. Twitter: @InTheLoopWP.