Complaints of harassment and hostile work environments are on the rise onCapitol Hill, where offices are not required to keep personnel records, providemandatory anti-discrimination training or protect whistleblowers despite forcingother government agencies and private employers to do so, a new report says.Lawmakers collectively employ about 30,000 people working in crammed CapitolHill suites or storefront district offices across the country, and at supportagencies, including the Architect of the Capitol and U.S. Capitol Police. Abouttwo-thirds of legislative branch employees call the Washington area home,according to estimates by the nonpartisan Office of Compliance, which monitorscongressional workplace issues.The office's annual "State of the Congressional Workplace" report, scheduled forrelease Thursday, finds that a growing number of congressional staff members areseeking advice on how to deal with harassment and discipline issues.By law, congressional staff members may choose to meet with OOC officials toreview personnel complaints or mediate workplace disputes, and may pursue claimsin an administrative hearing or refer the case to federal court if theallegations are unresolved.In fiscal 2010, OOC said it handled 105 new counseling requests and 86 requestsfor mediation, up from previous years, and said it reviewed a higher number ofindividual allegations of harassment and hostile work environments or concernsabout promotions.A majority of the counseling requests came from employees of the Architect ofthe Capitol and U.S. Capitol Police, with just 19 percent of requests promptedby House staff members and 4 percent from Senate employees."These cases are becoming more complex and sophisticated, often with multipleallegations of discrimination, discovery disputes, and issues relating to theOOC's rules and procedures," Tamara E. Chrisler, the office's executivedirector, said in the report.The offices of House Speaker John A. Boehner (R-Ohio), Senate Majority LeaderHarry M. Reid (D-Nev.) and the Capitol Police declined to comment.Eva Malecki, an Architect of the Capitol spokeswoman, said the growing number ofrequests for counseling from her office are partly because it "encourages itsemployees to use this additional resource to help them resolve workplaceissues." With 2,600 employees, AOC is one of the largest congressional agencies,she said.The lower percentage of counseling requests among House and Senate staff membersis probably because congressional offices do not publicly post information onworker's rights in the office or require mandatory employment training,according to reports previously published by OOC's board of directors. A staffmember's concerns about potentially disparaging the reputation of a lawmaker orpolitical party also probably keep workers from creating a case file, OOCofficials said.And despite its push to become a player in workplace disputes, OOC is often keptout of some of the Hill's more salient allegations of harassment ordiscrimination, said lawyer Debra S. Katz, who has handled several employmentdiscrimination cases on Capitol Hill.In more serious cases, "there typically is a discussion of resolution before thecomplaint is even filed," Katz said. "We've certainly been involved in a numberof situations where the allegations were serious and we were able to resolve itwithout going" to the OOC.As it has in previous years, the report faulted lawmakers for exempting thelegislative branch from significant provisions of national workplace rightslaws. Despite laws applying those national workplace standards to thelegislative branch, the report said congressional offices do not keep recordsrequired for the enforcement of some workplace rights laws, do not requireanti-discrimination or anti-retaliation training for employees, and do notprovide protections for workers who report violations or allege cases of waste,fraud and abuse.In the House, Reps. Dan Lungren (R-Calif.) and Robert A. Brady (D-Pa.), thechairman and ranking member of the House Administration Committee, said theyplan to review the report and ensure that staff members understand their rights.ed.okeefe@washingtonpost.com