Sen. Ki rsten Gilli bra nd is sitt i ng at a co r n e r table in  the Se natedinin g    room, eati ng a salad  and  ducking q uestions about he r politicalambitions,when she spots fellow Democrat Elizabeth Warren walking in. Minutes later,Gillibrand has ushered her interviewer to meet the Massachusetts senator. Thetwo women, who are frequently mentioned as possible backups to Hillary Clintonfor the 2016 Democratic presidential nomination, cheerfully trade pleasantries.Â¶ "She's great," Gillibrand says.  Â¶ "She's really amazing," Warren says. Â¶Though brief, the exchange captures Gillibrand's political skill, as she seizeson an opportunity to make a reporter feel like an insider and, at the same time,showcases cordial relations with a colleague  others are casting as a potentialrival. Â¶ Telegenic and brainy, the 47-year-old junior senator from New York andmother of two has become a visible face in the Senate, a regular at women'sforums and policy talk shows, and something of a political pinup (The Hill namedher one of its 50 most beautiful in 2010). An obscure second-term House memberwhen appointed to fill Clinton's seat in 2009, she has won election andreelection, both by landslides."If Hillary Clinton doesn't run in 2016, I wouldn't be surprised to see KirstenGillibrand jump in," says Larry Sabato, director of the Center for Politics atthe University of Virginia. "Gillibrand seems to have the ambition to do it."In her sixth year in the Senate, working out of Clinton's former quarters in theRussell Senate Office Building, Gillibrand has carved out territory includingmilitary and middle-class issues, and fashioned an image as a tenacious fighterfor women. Now, she has taken another step along the modern-day passage to thepresidency: writing a political memoir. With an introduction by Clinton, "Offthe Sidelines: Raise Your Voice, Change the World" is due out Sept. 9. LikeGillibrand's political action committee of the same name, it exhorts women totake the lead in politics, in business and at home. "I wrote the book toencourage women to use their voices,'' she says.Gillibrand says she's "worried that the women's movement is dead." Acknowledgingthat some feminist leaders might find that characterization inflammatory, shesays, "I think those of us who are in the trenches recognize we're in a toughplace." While citing achievements such as keeping abortion-rights  efforts aliveand helping women advance in the workforce, she contends that "there's nofunctional movement where we're working together and making sure all women areheard on all these issues."With "Off the Sidelines," she says, "I'm creating a call to â[#x20ac]¦ createthe women's movement we need for this generation."The title is "perfect for her, since she is not on the sidelines one minute ofher life," says Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (D-Fla.), Gillibrand's closefriend and softball team co-captain.So, to continue the analogy, the question becomes this: If Gillibrand is off thesidelines, where is she going? Is she headed for the quarterback position? Isshe running for president?"I would say that I'm supporting Hillary in 2016," the senator says, "and I amgoing to fight very hard to see that she wins."And if Clinton doesn't run?Gillibrand shrugs.Political books serve different purposes: campaign tools, ego boosters, policytracts, coming-of-age reminiscences. Gillibrand's has a bit of each. It tellsthe story of Kirsten Elizabeth Rutnik, a middle-class Roman Catholic Albanyschoolgirl who was driven to excel and influenced by a line of strong-willed,iconoclastic women who cared little about public opinion.Her maternal great-grandmother, Mimi, an Irish immigrant, worked at anammunition arsenal during World War II, kicked her husband out of the house fordrinking too much and chose to raise her children alone. Mimi's daughter,Kirsten's grandmother, Dorothea "Polly" McLean Noonan became a prominent figurein Albany and an intimate of longtime mayor Erastus Corning. Salty-tongued andbrazen, she was a leader of the Albany Democratic Party machine, doling outpatronage and favors, organizing government secretaries known as "Polly'sGirls," and heading the Albany Democratic Women's Club.Kirsten (everyone called her Tina) learned campaign basics from her grandmother,stuffing  envelopes, sticking bumper stickers on cars, handing out fliers andknocking on doors. "I really wanted to follow my grandmother into politics," shesays, "and I liked how assured she was, and I liked that she was passionateabout what she did."Kirsten's mother, also named Polly,  founded a law firm in Albany with herhusband, Douglas P. Rutnik. Polly Rutnik ran the home as well as practicing law.She cooked, did most of the housework, looked after her three children, Douglas,Kirsten and Erin, and found time to earn a black belt in karate and hunt turkeysfor Thanksgiving. "She prioritized both work and family; I never imagined Iwould do otherwise," Gillibrand writes in the book. (Kirsten's parents  divorcedwhen she was 22.)Kirsten learned to cope with stress and competition on the tennis court, andlearned to argue at home, with her father. "I fought about everything," shesays. "Can I go to a party? Can I go to a concert?" He called her Foghorn andLoudmouth.Despite standing up to her father, "I was a massive kiss-[a--] and lived forpositive reinforcement," she writes in her book. "As a child, I wrote in perfectcursive penmanship, thanks to the nuns. I did all my homework as soon as I gothome, and I kept my room clean." She was a  goody-two-shoes, except for hertemper and her elbows-out determination to excel. "Whatever I did - debating,playing the piano or tennis, selling Girl Scout cookies - I had to earn a goldstar. "She went to Catholic schools from kindergarten to middle school and attendedEmma Willard, an elite all-girls high school. At Dartmouth, she ignored campuspolitics, joined a sorority, majored in Asian studies (spending a semester inBeijing, where her roommate was Connie Britton of TV's "Nashville," who remainsa friend) and graduated magna cum laude. Only after earning a degree at the UCLASchool of Law and landing a job at the international law firm Davis Polk &Wardwell in New York City did Gillibrand get involved in politics."The voice that inspired me to take my life in a new direction came in a pinksuit," she writes.  On Sept. 5, 1995, first lady Hillary Clinton spoke inBeijing at the Fourth World Conference on Women, forging the phrase that becamea mantra for women worldwide: Human rights are women's rights and women's rightsare human rights. Hearing about the speech made Gillibrand wish she had beenthere and had been part of the conversation. And it brought back her childhooddream of being in politics, like her grandmother.Shortly afterward, Gillibrand heard Clinton speak at the Women's LeadershipForum in New York, which she joined. "That's what got me into the nuts and boltsof New York City politics," Gillibrand says. In 1996, she was an unpaidfundraiser in President Bill Clinton's reelection campaign and, four yearslater, volunteered to raise money for Vice President Al Gore. After Gore'sdefeat, she went to work at Boies, Schiller & Flexner - whose star attorney,David Boies, had represented Gore in  Bush v. Gore  - and was made partner,earning about $450,000 a year.She kept her hand in politics, fundraising for Hillary Clinton's senatorialcampaign and training to run for office herself, moving to her firm's Albanyoffice so she could vie for a congressional seat close to her Upstate roots. In2006, she ran for the conservative 20th Congressional District against a popularRepublican.She proved to be a tireless campaigner and prolific fundraiser, amassing $4.6million, a stunning sum for a congressional campaign. Her opponent, Rep. John E.Sweeney, who portrayed her as an out-of-touch, rich Manhattanite, was leading inthe polls. But shortly before Election Day, a police report was leaked tonewspapers saying that Sweeney's wife had called 911 to say he was beating her.His camp said Gillibrand leaked the report; she declined to say. She won by 6points.Despite that upset, Gillibrand was unknown in much of New York when Gov. DavidA. Paterson  appointed her to fill Clinton's Senate term in a controversial moveseen as a nod to her gender and Upstate support. It didn't help that she  hadbeen the second choice, after Caroline Kennedy, yet ahead of more experiencedrepresentatives. Gillibrand was sworn in on Jan. 27, 2009, at 42   then theyoungest  member of the U.S. Senate.From the start she ran into a wall. Some colleagues and newspaper columnistscalled her Tracy Flick, referring to the blond, ambitious Reese Witherspooncharacter in the film "Election." In New York City's liberal circles, her 15years as a highly paid corporate lawyer and two years representing aconservative district didn't sit well. She was seen as a political lightweightand labeled pro-gun, pro-Wall Street, anti-immigration and pro-tobacco. (Duringthe tobacco wars of the 1990s, she had helped represent Altria, parent companyof Philip Morris.) Enlisting supporters like the Clintons, she countered with acampaign to win over blacks, Hispanics and other liberals. She won election to aSenate term in 2010, 63  to 35 percent,  then reelection two years ago, 72 to 26percent.Along with broadening her electoral base, Gillibrand has come to be associatedwith several high-profile issues. She was a leader in the successful struggle torepeal "don't ask, don't tell." She was on the front lines of the campaign togain approval of marriage equality in the New York legislature, and was amongthe first Democrats to call for bringing combat troops home from Afghanistan. Toaddress the plight of low- and middle-income families, she has fashioned anambitious agenda that includes raising the minimum wage, affordable day care anduniversal pre-K education. She established Off the Sidelines as a PAC in 2011and raised $1 million for female candidates in the 2012 cycle. Her goal is todouble that for the midterms this year, and she says she is close to doing it.Another issue she has focused on: sexual abuses in the armed forces. She waged ayearlong battle for her bill to strip commanders of their authority to prosecutethose cases and give that responsibility to military lawyers outside the chainof command. Military leaders opposed the measure, and in March, her proposalcame up five votes short of the 60 needed to advance to the Senate floor. Sen.Claire McCaskill of Missouri, a Democrat, led the fight to block it, offeringbipartisan reforms that kept prosecution within the chain of command."I was devastated," Gillibrand says."She is formidable," says McCaskill, who is now working with Gillibrand onlegislation to curb sexual assaults on university campuses. "She doesn't stop.She lobbies every senator over and over. I tell people, 'If you are going tooppose Kirsten Gillibrand, you need to pack your lunch, because you won't havetime to go out.' "Hill watchers often cite Gillibrand's political appeal. "She has impressivelyemerged from the paralyzed muck of the U.S. Senate because she offers aprogressive vision," says Steve Clemons, a senior fellow at the New AmericaFoundation and an editor at large at the Atlantic. Gillibrand "brings to hergame a love of detail and dealmaking reminiscent of LBJ."And while Sabrina Schaeffer, executive director of the conservative IndependentWomen's Forum, opposes Gillibrand's legislative agenda, she also says Gillibrandhas a "girl-next-door personality women and men can identify with" and "haschecked off all the right boxes on women's issues."But Michael Barone, a political analyst and resident fellow at the AmericanEnterprise Institute and contributor to Fox News, dismisses Gillibrand, saying:"I don't think many conservatives have given much thought to her. They see heras a conventional liberal in a safe seat with no national career in the shortterm."Gillibrand's memoir, which she will promote on a coast-to-coast tour this month,will generate talk of a presidential run no matter how much she fends off thequestion."It's always a bit amusing when a relatively junior senator decides to offer upan autobiography," says U-Va.'s Sabato. "That means one thing: She's interestedin higher office."In style, however, Gillibrand's book differs significantly from previouspolitical memoirs. Hers is a quick read, chatty, candid, with self-help and evendiet advice. "It's not a policy book," she says.Beltway commentators may find it frothy, but she says she wants to reach a widerset of readers, especially women, people who may not want an insider's accountof life in Washington. "Empowerment of all women is important," she says, notjust those who are seeking to crack the ceiling, or lean in or lean out.She bristles at the debate about whether women can have it all. "It's an absurdargument." The very phrase "have it all," she says, implies that women aregreedy and demeans stay-at-home mothers. For many mothers, she says, working isa financial necessity, not a choice, and she says she is particularly concernedabout low-and-middle-income women, especially single moms. "I don't have theirtough choices, but I share the same experience that they have," she says. "Weall want to be good moms. We all want to be good at our jobs. We all want toprovide for our children."Still, if the question isn't about  having  it all, many who spend time aroundKirsten Gillibrand seem to wonder how she  does  it all. She and her husband,Jonathan Gillibrand, a British-born financial manager, moved to Washington in2007, but for the past two years, he has spent workweeks in New York City whiletheir two boys stay with her."She is taking care of two small children and working her head off in theSenate," says Sen. Susan Collins of Maine, among the Republicans who backedGillibrand on the military bill. "It's not like she has live-in help the way alot of people in the Senate do, and I just don't know how she does it."Gillibrand's mornings begin between 6 and 6:30, when Henry, her 6-year-old, alive wire who is starting first grade, wakes her. "Almost always, I feelexhausted when I get up," she says. She fixes breakfast for the boys, packstheir lunches, does laundry or dishes, checks their homework and drives them toschool. If she has time she stops at the gym for a workout and arrives in heroffice by 9. She's usually on Capitol Hill until late afternoon when she getsaway to pick up the boys at school.A trim 5-foot-2, she gains weight easily - 50 pounds when she was pregnant withHenry. When she got to the Senate, she went on a crash regimen, dropped her sizeto a 4 or 6 from 16, and was featured in Vogue. "If I eat more than 1,400calories a day, I gain weight," she says. She cooks almost every weeknight,typically chicken, fish or lean beef, with salad and vegetables. A masterjuggler, she can cook, sweep, pick up schoolbooks and children's shoes lyingabout, and carry on a conversation at the same time.After dinner, she might take Theo, who is 10 and in fifth grade, to sportspractice or whatever is on his schedule. Like their mother, the boys lead busylives: baseball, soccer, squash, T-ball, piano, singing and taekwondo. She triesto get to bed about 10. "If I don't get enough sleep, I get irritable andemotional."The Gillibrands live in a three-story brick rowhouse on Capitol Hill. They havea sparsely furnished living room with an upright piano. The kitchen, acomfortable open space with a dining table, has framed photographs of thesenator with the boys, Henry's crayon drawings, and notes on the refrigeratordoor. Parked out back is an old Porsche belonging to Gillibrand's husband,currently working with Formula One racing. "We use my van to get around," shesays.The couple met in 1999 when Jonathan, two years her junior, was getting an MBAat Columbia and she was working at Davis Polk. They were married in 2001. "We'reopposites in many ways," she says. "That's probably why it works." Jonathan, whois private, methodical and thoughtful, has been encouraging  her politicalcareer, offering cautious advice and absorbing criticism. But her first year inthe House was difficult, as she recounts in her book. They lived with Theo in aVirginia suburb. Jonathan hated Washington and had no job. They argued. At onepoint he told her, "Your job is the reason we don't have more kids!" Sherealized he had a point. Soon she was pregnant with Henry.When the family is together on weekends "we do things the boys like to do,''usually sports, she says. "Jonathan is really good about chores. I do not naghim. I do not ask him to do things. I typically do the cooking because itrelaxes me. But Jonathan helps clean up. He's is more supportive than theaverage husband."For someone who is all about women forging ahead, it may seem ironic that shetakes on the majority of parenting duties. But, she says: "I think most workingmoms do it all. They do a lot of caregiving. They do a lot of housework. Andthey work full time."The next morning in her busy office, Henry is with her, slouching on the sofa,playing with pieces on a chessboard and trying hard to obey his mother and keepquiet.Settling into a favorite wingback chair, Gillibrand says she wants to recruit 6million women to active service in politics, businesses and communities. Sixmillion is the number of women who entered the workforce to replace the men whohad gone to battle during World War II.Looking up at a poster of Rosie the Riveter, the advertising character whorepresented those women,  Gillibrand echoes, "We can do it!"Former New York Times editor Luisita Lopez Torregrosa is a journalist and authorbasedin New York. To comment on this story, e-mail wpmagazine@washpost.com orvisit washingtonpost.com/magazine.