The Joint Chiefs of Staff are preparing for a battle on Capitol Hill, butthey'll be playing defense.The growing crisis of military sexual assaults and the failure to deal seriouslywith the issue over the past decade are going to lead to legislation thatthreatens to break the chain of command.Anyone who has served in the military in wartime learns to respect theimportance of the chain-of-command concept and the need to obey orders.Soldiers, sailors, Marines and airmen do what they are told and must be able totrust that their superiors know what they are doing.As an Army draftee at the end of the Korean War, I came to understand this.There was no going to someone else to argue against an order or direction. In abattle or a firefight, everyone must work together. Of course, this requireseveryone be treated fairly and honestly so the whole system has integrity.That hasn't been the case regarding sexual assault, and in the currentatmosphere, it's all but guaranteed that the number of examples will grow.Tuesday's newest allegation about a non-commissioned officer assigned to thesexual assault prevention office at Fort Hood, Tex., being investigated forsexual misconduct, abuse and maltreatment of soldiers has caused morelegislators to speak up. Bet on more congressional hearings.For example, Sen. Richard J. Durbin (D-Ill.) has announced he will use hisSenate Appropriations Defense subcommittee hearing next Wednesday, when Armyleaders come to defend their fiscal 2014 budget request, to ask questions aboutthe Fort Hood sergeant.A new chapter will open in a military trial set for next month at Fort Bragg,N.C. Brig. Gen. Jeffrey Sinclair, former deputy commanding general of the 82ndAirborne Division, is charged with forcible sodomy and indecent acts involvingthree female officers. The military judge presiding over a pretrial hearingTuesday ordered the testimony of two Army generals after the defense allegedthat Pentagon officials may have placed improper pressure on Gen. Dan Allyn,Sinclair's boss, to bring the charges.Under the Uniform Code of Military Justice, a commanding officer should not beinfluenced by his superiors in making such a decision.Military sexual assault isn't new. In February 2004, then-Defense SecretaryDonald H. Rumsfeld ordered a 90-day review of sexual assaults after allegationsof crimes committed against female soldiers in Iraq and Kuwait.One of the review's eventual findings sounds familiar: "Sexual assault riskfactors in the military do not appear to be significantly different from thosereported in civilian literature."The programs set up eight years ago haven't worked. The Pentagon's own reportlast week estimated the number of military women and men victimized was up by 35percent over the past two years.More signs of the crisis:l While 96 percent of women and 97 percent of men said they had participated inPentagon sexual assault training in the past 12 months, only 16 percent of thewomen and 25 percent of the men responding to a survey "indicated sexual assaultin the military is less of a problem today than four years ago."l While 70 percent of women and 83 percent of men said they "would feel free toreport sexual assault without fear of reprisals to a large extent," only 44percent of those women who reported assaults were satisfied with theircommanders' handling of their cases; 33 percent said they were dissatisfied.l In fact, only 3,374 reports of sexual assault were filed in fiscal 2012, lastweek's report said, while the Pentagon survey said some 26,000 troops told thesurvey they had experienced "unwanted sexual contact."l Women who had been sexually harassed said that more than half of the offenderswere military co-workers, 28 percent were military personnel and 27 percent were"in their military chain of command."Defense Secretary Chuck Hagel has taken some steps in reaction to thedisclosures, but they are too late.Sen. Kirsten Gillibrand (D-N.Y.), chairman of the Senate Armed Services militarypersonnel subcommittee, along with Sen. Barbara Boxer (D-Calif.) and others,will introduce legislation Thursday that would take decision making on sexualoffenses out of the chain of command.Under the bill, an experienced military prosecutor, grade colonel or higher,would decide whether a matter goes to a court-martial. Commanders would continueto deal out nonjudicial punishment under Article 15 of the Military Code foroffenses not sent to trial by the prosecutors.Whether that will satisfy the Joint Chiefs is unclear.One thing appears certain: Their leadership neglect in the face of this problemhas given Congress the upper hand. Whatever bill arrives at the White House isbound to get President Obama's signature because he, too, sees military sexualassaults as an outrage.On May 8, Obama said what should have been done in 2004:"I don't want just more speeches or awareness programs or training but,ultimately, folks look the other way. If we find out somebody is engaging inthis stuff, they've got to be held accountable - prosecuted, stripped of theirpositions, court-martialed, fired, dishonorably discharged. Period."That's how you keep the chain of command from rusting.pincusw@washpost.comFor previous Fine Print columns, go to washingtonpost.com/fedpage.