Dear Carolyn:Am I doing the right thing? I'm single, mid-thirties, never had consensual sexwith a man. I was raped twice when I was little. I've never had a relationshipand, frankly, don't believe love exists. I have given up on finding a person tobuild a life with. I'd like for sex to feel normal, to feel that someone couldfind me attractive. My plan is to go to a bar, meet someone and go home withhim. Three close friends have voted against the idea, citing disease,possibility of meeting a nut, etc. I'm tired of being alone and feeling like Imust be the most repulsive thing anyone has ever seen. If I were the kind ofperson someone would have a relationship with, it would have happened by now. Ithink a one-night stand would at least give me some reassurance. What do yousay?Given Up on LoveIf someone asked me the best way to feel alone and repulsive, one of my firstsuggestions would be to go to a bar, meet someone and have a one-night stand.Your circumstances are unique and distressing, but seven years of mail fromseven years of unhappy people has a way of herding individual cases into adiscernible whole. One-night stands don't work. Using sex to alleviateself-loathing doesn't work. Giving up does not work.I could pretend I had as easy a list of things that do work, but you've beenjerked around enough for several lifetimes, so I won't. Truth is, everythingthat works takes work. And an open mind, many trials, many errors -- and dumbluck, because no answer is for everyone.Therapy, for example. Life-saving when it's good, hope-sucking when it's bad.(In your case, I urge you, seek competent, experienced care. Try the Rape, Abuseand Incest National Network, 800-656-4673.) Faith is another example -- fillingor draining, depending on the vessel.Love is one that rarely disappoints and so deserves more credit from you. Youlove those friends, no doubt, and they you. There's nothing that says a mancan't see in you what they do, if you're willing to give the same. There's alsonothing that says remaining single must mean you're repulsive. Your friendsserve as proof that you're not. And don't say you meant physically, because Idon't believe you. You led with the rapes. Any damage from those is internal --and no one-night stand will repair it.Nor, frankly, would "building a life" with a man. I'm going to have my Societyfor the Prevention of Simplistic Cornball Advice membership revoked for thesetwo paragraphs, but: You're the only one in a position to declare yourselfworthy of love. So go find a mirror, and declare it.And then laugh at yourself for talking to a mirror.Believing yourself won't be so easy, obviously. That's a matter of making amillion little decisions in your own favor, every day, from what to eat to whereyou go and with whom. Starting now.Starting with, "I'm going to get professional help until my self-image isn'trepulsive." And, "I'm better than one-night stands." And, "I was raped, notruined for life."Write to Tell Me About It, Sunday Source, 1150 15th St. NW, Washington, D.C.20071 or tellme@washpost.com and join Carolyn's live discussion at noon Fridaysat www.washingtonpost.com/liveonline.