I'm sitting in a cozy little coffeehouse in Clarendon, listening for whispers ofevil. It's an important journalistic mission; I am trying to rescue anendangered literary cliche, the one about how places carry "echoes of theirpast." Every journalist depends on this cliche when we write our crappy storiesabout Civil War battlefields, or the razing of some venerable stadium, or someneighborhood that was once great and is now grim.I'm here at the Java Shack because I've been told there are no bad echoes. Andyet, by the solemn rules of my craft, there must be. The building that the JavaShack occupies used to belong to the American Nazi Party. Back in the 1960s, afulminating racist named George Lincoln Rockwell held court here, plotting worldconquest.How bad was Rockwell? Well, he kept a candlelit shrine to Adolf Hitler. He worea swastika armband, believed that black men just want to "loaf, loot and rape,"and he publicly advocated the imprisonment of homosexuals and the gassing ofJews. He did have a softer, artistic side: He also founded a music companycalled Hatenanny Records, featuring the song stylings of Odis Cochran and theThree Bigots.So I'm hoping for the worst, aura-wise, but so far, things are not going well.The Java Shack seems like a friendly place, with a wooden rocking horse forchildren, a featured quiche of the day, yogurt muffins and "free trade" coffeethat costs a little more because the South Americans who harvest the beans get aliving wage. The light bulbs are energy-savers, and the Styrofoam is made fromcorn, not petroleum. The guy behind the counter is dark-skinned, as is the womanin the corner, talking to her white friend. The owner, Dale Roberts, is gay.Hey, Dale, do you let Jews in here?"'Scuse me?"You know, money-grubbing Christ-killers?"Oh. Right. Sure!"Dale's laughing. He still gets letters sometimes, addressed to the Nazis.There's a pile of them next to the cash register.These could be the evil vibes I am looking for, except they're too pathetic toqualify. They're all postmarked from prisons and are mostly written incurlicued, second-grade cursive, like this one that begins, "I've been a racistsince March of '95 . . ."Here's one that ends so bizarrely that I take a pictureof it with my cellphone:I tell Dale I'm looking for echoes of the past. They're gone, he says. He gotrid of them with magic . . .'Scuse me?"In the first few years after we opened, there were eerie sounds. Things werespontaneously falling off the shelves. I hung a pink neon triangle in the backof the shop, and one day it fell off the wall for no reason and shattered into40 pieces. So this reiki master came in, and she purified the place usingburning sage. Then all the stuff stopped."This isn't helping my cause. "Echoes of the past" can't be so weak a cliche thatit can be negated by some mystic lady with a burning herb. Newspapers don't evenrecognize the supernatural. It's not part of our Mission.I am about to give up hope when I decide to visit the Java Shack again. Bingo!In the corner sits a bearded man in a long coat, muttering to himself, hunchedover a laptop that the store makes available for its clientele at a buck anhour. He is literally pounding the keys, stopping every once in a while toglance furtively around. He looks like a 1920s anarchist. The guy comes in fromtime to time, Dale says, and types so intensely that he once actually broke thekeyboard. No one knows what kind of stuff he is sending out onto the Internet.I tap him on the shoulder, and he whips around like he's been assaulted.Can we talk a sec?"No!" he snarls. "I'm busy, doing important work."What I do next is not taught in J-school. It is rude and sneaky. But I have toknow what demonic plans he is hatching, helpless in the thrall of whatever foulauras linger. I stealthily creep up behind him and peep over his shoulder. Thisis what he is typing into an Internet discussion group:"In my opinion, Edwards, Paul, Obama, Huckabee and Kucinich are the best choicesfor real change."Sigh.Gene Weingarten can be reached at weingarten@washpost.comChat with him online Tuesdays at noon at www.washingtonpost.com.