Florence Deacon wants a new pope "with experience of living with a lot ofordinary folks. Someone who understands the difficulty of having to live thegospel and at the same time get a little boy to eat his breakfast before he goesoff to school."Margaret Farley wants to see a church leadership "marked by the grace oflistening and respect - and mutually so."Deacon and Farley are not just Catholic women, they're nuns. And both have runafoul of the administration of Pope Benedict XVI. Sister Florence is presidentof the Leadership Conference of Women Religious, which continues to beinvestigated for what the Vatican has called doctrinal inconsistencies,including "radical feminism." Sister Margaret is an emerita professor at Yale.Her 2010 book, "Just Love," was censured by the church's Congregation for theDoctrine of the Faith for being "in direct contradiction with Catholic teachingon sexual morality."No wonder these women, who have given their lives to God, hope for a pontiff whomight signal a new era of diversity, listening and respect, and an understandingof - if not experience with - the way real people live real lives.The Second Vatican Council ended with a resounding call for the inclusion ofwomen into church life."The hour is coming," read the council's closing documents, "in which womenacquire in the world an influence, an effect and a power never hithertoachieved. That is why, at this moment . . . women imbued with a spirit of theGospel can do so much to aid humanity in not falling."But that prescient rhetoric has turned up empty. The status of nuns within theCatholic organization, at least in the West, has dropped precipitously - and so,accordingly, have their numbers.Sister Florence says that although her organization represents 50,000 Americansisters, the LCWR has no regular audience with the pope. She has never met anypope. No one in the American church leadership has ever asked her opinion on amatter of national, political or ecclesiastical significance, such as thecontraception mandate in President Obama's health plan or the use of condoms toprevent the spread of AIDS.Regular meetings with church leaders would "allow you to see each other as realpeople, and if you have a question or a concern, you talk it over. You don't letthings get blown out of proportion and let situations fester. It would be niceto have periodic access," she says. Instead, the LCWR is in the position ofhaving to defend itself to the pope's men against allegations made by the pope'smen.In the meantime, the church hierarchy has closed ranks, appearing to the publicmore than ever like a group of old guys in dress-up, deaf to the real concernsof their members. Allegations of sexual abuse and coverups continue to ripplethrough the church at high levels, while an insistence on the immorality ofbirth control seems to define the U.S. bishops' public position on the entireuniverse of male-female relations. It is no wonder that the young leave theRoman Catholic Church in larger numbers than members of most other Christiandenominations.Most mainline Christian denominations made their peace with women in leadershiproles in the past century, but the Catholic Church has not. Not only can womennot be ordained as priests, they are represented in very few real leadershiproles at all. In the dicasteries - the committees that together form the Vatican- very few of the highest-ranking administrators are women. About a quarter ofU.S. dioceses have put women in the position of chancellor, a job that can beeither very powerful or very bureaucratic, depending on the bishop in charge."For the church to thrive, we must take seriously the role of women and createopportunities to elevate women to positions of meaningful leadership in thechurch, even in the Roman Curia," says Kerry Robinson, executive director of theNational Leadership Roundtable on Church Management. "Pope Benedict XVI'ssuccessor would do well to recognize that the church is impoverished when we donot avail ourselves of the full gifts and talents of women."To that end, Sister Florence has done some research, and she contends thatthere's no reason  women can't become cardinals. In recent memory, cardinalshave been priests first, but "in the past," she says, "people could have beenmade cardinals and then ordained. I haven't heard anyone seriously pushing this,but the cardinals are seen as advisers to the pope."Sister Florence speaks like a person who enjoys being a bit of a provocateur."It's an idea to play around with, and it puts a twinkle in my eye."For Lisa Miller's previous columns, go to www.washingtonpost.com/onfaith.