Dear Carolyn:I am a confused and frustrated man. An old friend from college and I, for thepast year and a half, have done everything together from movies and dinners andnights on the town to hiking, tennis and long walks. She has me over for dinnerwith her parents and married friends, had me visit her home over Christmas, andwe've developed an incredibly strong, close, affectionate, "more than friends"emotional relationship.We love each other and have said so, but we can't seem to move on to the nextstage physically. I've been respectful and haven't wanted to pressure or pushher. She has very limited sexual experience, but at the same time feels that asweeping passion -- something she admits she has never had -- must be there fora relationship to even be considered. I'm lost here, and I really don't knowwhat to do. Any ideas?D.C.The angel voice said "talk to her"; the demon voice said "if you weren't so'respectful,' she might actually know what passion was." So, I did what oneshould always do when one is hearing voices: I talked to a psychiatrist.She said talk, not action, is the way to go, because your friend has somethinghuge she's not telling you. (Actually, her exact words were "not communicating,"but I figured I'd spare you the excess shrinkage.) Anyway, she can only guesswhat that huge thing is. It may be as simple as not being attracted to you, oras complicated as being terrified of sexual intimacy with anyone. The latterwould raise any number of possibilities, from inexperience to past sexual abuse.So pouncing is out. Be open, be solicitous, and give her a chance -- uh-gain --to "communicate" to you this mystery hang-up. If in the end, though, you'restill a confused and frustrated man, it doesn't take an M.D. to see the nextstep: Bail.Dear Carolyn:Three years ago, my best friend's boyfriend did me a really huuuge favor. Iinvited him out to dinner to thank him; my friend was away on business. We haddinner, and as he was dropping me off, I commented that he had had too much todrink and he should spend the night on my sofa. He agreed.During the night, I came out and got on the sofa with him. Well, one thing ledto another and we ended up becoming intimate. The next morning we agreed that wehad used poor judgment and that it would never happen again. It hasn't.They are now married and expecting their second child. I'm finding it hard tolook her in the eye these days. I want to tell her, but her husband doesn't wantto. I'm beginning to think he is a soulless, bloodless, consciencelessindividual, since he seems perfectly capable of hiding this from my best friend.What do you think?SheilaHow good of you to watch over your friend like that. Too bad you weren't soconcerned when you were boinking her boyfriend.My generic tell-or-not-to-tell philosophy is to say something if it wouldbenefit your victim, and to put a sock in it if you're just trying to makeyourself feel better. To see which is true here, look at the people involved:Your friend probably wouldn't want a secret like that corroding her marriage --and not knowing is twice as bad when a close friend is in on that secret. On theother hand, the last thing the kids need is a parental meltdown.Your motives -- now, there's a fine way to break the tie. You imply you'rehaving (richly deserved) conscience problems, but I'm not buying. You asked himto dinner, you asked him to stay over, you jumped him. While he slept. So therighteous indignation over the "soulless, bloodless, conscienceless" husband --as in, your prey -- sounds like my dog playing accordion. (She only playspiano.) It sounds so bad, in fact, that I'm wondering if you're somehow bent onsabotaging this "best friend" of yours, and the sanctimonious-confessor pose isjust the latest in some twisted continuum. Well, I won't be your accomplice.Leave that marriage alone.(Yoo-hoo, Prince Charming: Your confession is three years overdue.)Dear Carolyn:What do you think about a friend who tells you she doesn't like your boyfriend,never has (you've been together for two years), and she only wants to spend timewith you alone. A friend worth keeping?WashingtonI don't know you, I don't know your boyfriend, and I don't know your friend.I'll try touching your e-mail, to see what my psychic powers say about all ofyou.Oh wait, I don't have any psychic powers.You can find out for yourself by asking exactly what she doesn't like. If shecites legitimate personality clashes, it's no big deal, just see themseparately. If she cites a bunch of shallow things that she should be able todeal with -- geeky sense of humor, odd smells -- she isn't much of a friend.But if she objects to the way you are when you're around him, she just might beyour bestest friend ever. As much as we like to think we're strong, independentand self-possessed, we're all just mirrors -- fun house mirrors, make that --for our various outside influences. Sometimes, it takes a good friend to spot ifone of those influences is bad. And sometimes, it's wise to listen.Write to Tell Me About It, Style Plus, 1150 15th St. NW, Washington, D.C. 20071or tellmewashpost.com, and chat with Carolyn live online at noon today on ThePost's Web site, http://www.washingtonpost.com