The instant message blinked on the computer at Jessica Cutler's desk in theRussell Senate Office Building. "Oh my God, you're famous."Before she could form the thought -- "famous, cool" -- or puzzle how she, alowly mail clerk, had escaped obscurity, a second instant message popped up onher screen. Startled, Jessica recalls, she began to curse."Your blog is on Wonkette," the message said.Jessica's blog (short for "Web log") was the online diary she had been postinganonymously to amuse herself and her closest girlfriends. In it, she detailedthe peccadilloes of the men she said were her six current sexual partners,including a married Bush administration official who met her in hotel rooms andgave her envelopes of cash; a senator's staff member who helped hire her, thenlater bedded her; and another man who liked to spank and be spanked.Wonkette is a popular online gossip column that was read by lots of Jessica'sfriends and Capitol Hill co-workers, including some of the men in her blog.The messages warning Jessica that her private little joke had just gone verypublic came from a girlfriend over on the House side. Reading it, Jessica says,she was too stunned to wonder how Wonkette had discovered her blog. Instead, theportion of Jessica's brain that had evolved to help humans survive maraudingmastodons screamed: Kill the blog! Kill the blog!Typing and clicking her mouse at a desperate pace, Jessica logged on toblogger.com, the electronic bulletin board where she'd posted her sexploitsunder the pseudonym Washingtonienne, and deleted her blog, hoping she'd blownher diary into oblivion. She says she barely breathed as she closed outblogger.com and summoned Wonkette.com onto her screen. There it was: a teasingitem noting that an unnamed staffer for a certain Midwestern senator was surelygoing to get a book contract out of her X-rated blog. The gossip columnistoffered her readers a link so they could read the sex diary for themselves.Jessica clicked on the link. "Page not found," came the reply.A reprieve. Maybe nobody on Capitol Hill had read or copied her blog beforeshe'd deleted it. Maybe nobody would figure out that Jessica was the staffer whowrote it. Maybe this was no biggie.Or maybe she needed to start looking for a new job right now.Jessica tried opening and sorting mail. That's what she was paid to do as astaff assistant for Sen. Mike DeWine, a Republican from Ohio. She liked to jokethat her job was really to throw out the mail, the stacks of letters fromearnest voters who believe members of Congress actually care what they think.Too jittery to work, Jessica dumped her stack of unopened mail on the two newinterns in her office. She figured they'd still be filled with youthfulenthusiasm for serving their government, seeing as how it was only their secondday on the job.Just then, Jessica says, the office door swung open. Framed in the doorway wasthe man she'd chronicled on the blog as her latest and favorite paramour -- aserious committee staffer more likely to be featured in some wonk newsletterthan an online sex diary. He didn't look happy.He asked her to step into the hallway, Jessica says. He was clutching a printoutof her blog. "I have nothing to say to you about this," Jessica recalls himsaying before he walked away."Okay, bye," Jessica said. She slunk back to her desk thinking, "Boy, am Igetting off easy."A few minutes later, she noticed one of the senator's senior aides standing afew feet away, glaring. This was the woman Jessica says set her up on her firstdate with the committee staffer. In her blog, Jessica breezily referred to heras a pimp. Now, the senior aide Jessica had called a pimp looked as if shewanted to rip Jessica's head off."You are the sorriest excuse for a human being," Jessica remembers the womanshouting. "You are worthless."The woman and the committee staffer both declined to be interviewed for thisarticle through Mike Dawson, DeWine's director of communications. Dawsondeclined to publicly discuss the accuracy of Jessica's blog or her account ofwhat happened after it became public.But, according to Jessica, the woman continued berating her until Jessica askedmeekly, "What should I do?"The woman told Jessica she should pack up and leave before she had her thrownout. "You better hope I never see you outside this building," Jessica recallsher saying.This was turning out to be a really lousy 26th birthday.Jessica tottered down the Russell Building's marble hallways atop the cute,nude-colored sandals that she liked to think made her legs look longer andsexier. She tugged forlornly at the cardigan she wore to cover her straplesspink birthday-girl-going-out-tonight dress. She felt ill, she says. By the timeshe reached her girlfriend's office on the House side, her stomach was heavingand her throat was so constricted she could barely speak."I'm fired," she mouthed silently at her friend."Oh my God, you need a drink."A few minutes later, Jessica and her friend slid onto stools in the cool dimnessof Bullfeathers, a popular Capitol Hill watering hole. Jessica ordered aSouthern Comfort. It was the middle of the afternoon on May 18."What happened to you today?" the bartender asked."I got fired. I lost my boyfriend and my job, and it's my birthday," Jessicaremembers telling him."How did you get fired?" the bartender wanted to know."I wrote an X-rated blog," Jessica said.The bartender looked puzzled."What's a blog?" he asked.Soon, the answer to that question would be writ large, not only acrossWashington, but around the world. The Times of India dubbed her the "New-insky."Jessica's unapologetically snarky chronicle of her busy sex life, her audaciousrefusal to keep the pawing patriarchy's dirty secrets, her contempt for honestbut unglamorous public service, her cynical wit and sexy looks would combinewith the power of the Web to launch her into low-orbit celebrity.She posed for Playboy in a pictorial that will run this fall, just in time forthe election. Book agents pursued her, and a literary bidding war netted her asix-figure book deal. "It's more than I probably deserve," she says. "Ha! I'msure a lot of people will agree."The tittering hordes vilified Jessica even as they pursued her, denouncing heronline, around office coolers and in commentaries from the left and right.Jessica thinks she knows why. In a culture increasingly nervous about its ownvalues, numbly sinking into the sofa at night to watch trash reality TV showsand wondering if our own 14-year-old sons and daughters are casually "hookingup," it's satisfying to have a bona fide blog slut to flog."I was watching the movie 'Scarface' the other night, and I was like, Oh my God,this is exactly how I feel," Jessica says. "There is that scene where [thegangster played by Al Pacino] was in a restaurant. He was all coked up. He getsthrown out. He tells everyone in the restaurant, 'You need me. You need me. Youneed me so you can point at me and say that's the bad guy.' "JESSICA CUTLER, THE MOUSE-CLICKER THAT ROARED, is a smart, subversive waif witha certain South Park charm. She's 5 feet 2, weighs about 100 pounds, wears hoopearrings as big as her fist and has a higher IQ -- she says she's been twicetested at more than 140 -- than the average medical student.Jessica was officially fired for misusing an office computer, but the men shewrote about kept their jobs. What they lost was their privacy. Jessica's blogidentified them only by their initials. But amateur Internet sleuths who readthe blog searched electronic databases looking for likely suspects, then postednames and photographs on the Internet. Jessica still refuses to name the menpublicly."I feel really bad for the guys," Jessica says. "They didn't deserve this."As for herself, she tries to look on the bright side. "I was only blogging for,what, less than two weeks?" she says. "Some people with blogs are never going toget famous, and they've been doing it for, like, over a year. I feel bad forthem."Sitting in a corner table at the Palm one recent afternoon, she twists a strandof her long dark hair as she contemplates her place in the universe."I was the one writing on the bathroom wall" with her online diary. "A lot ofmen have bad things to say about me," acknowledges Jessica, who has beenGoogling herself to read anonymous diatribes from online critics. "I reallyupset them. I think it bothers them to find out that girls really do, you know,get together and laugh about guys' [anatomies] all day."She's a next-generation Monica, still snapping her thong and gabbing to thegirls, only more cynical: free of romantic illusions about powerful men who aregoing to leave their wives. She's a real-life, "Sex and the City"-style Samanthawho says sex is pure sport. She is an American uber-individualist demanding theright to tell her own story her own way."Everyone should have a blog," Jessica says. "It's the most democratic thingever."And she's something else."She's a sign," says Daniel Yankelovich, the pollster and analyst who has beenstudying American values for 50 years. He means a sign of our times, as isJessica's frumpy 21-year-old contemporary, Pfc. Lynndie England, whose gleefulmugging for the cameras as she mocked naked Iraqi prisoners at Abu Ghraibunsettled the national conscience. Both women have left many people questioning:How did we get here?Jessica's "behavior is not mainstream majority behavior in the same way thatmost soldiers in Iraq are not abusing people," Yankelovich says. "She's anextreme, but she's a sign. These kinds of signs are breaking out often enoughthat you know they are signaling something much larger and more important."Feminist author Naomi Wolf agrees, and says modern sexual conduct offers awindow into what's been gained and lost in the nation's values revolution. Thesexual revolution, now stripped of much of its feminist political ideology, hasleft legions of young women free but confused. "I think the tipping point camethree or four years ago with the first generation to grow up with the Internet,"Wolf says. "They were daughters of feminists. The feminist message of autonomygot filtered through a pornographized culture. The message they heard was justgo for it sexually."What is gained is they totally reject the double standard and believe they areentitled to sexual exploration and sexual satisfaction," Wolf says. "Thedownside is we've raised a generation of young women -- and men -- who don'tunderstand sexual ethics like: Don't sleep with a married man; don't sleep witha married woman; don't embarrass people with whom you had a consensual sexualrelationship. They don't see sex as sacred or even very important anymore.That's been lost. Sex has been commodified and drained of its deeper meaning."To conservative commentator Michelle Malkin, who views the sexual revolution asmedia-driven, immoral and damaging to women, Jessica's eager publicists in themainstream press are just as repulsive as Jessica herself. "This vulgar littleepisode reflects a larger, disturbing media trend toward normalizing andglamorizing sexual promiscuity among young working women," Malkin wrote in anonline column titled "The Skanks on Capitol Hill," which was posted on thetownhall.com Web site. "It harms those trying to succeed on their merits in theprofessional arena. And it also harms our own daughters, who will be forced tofight harder to protect their dignity and credibility in a 'Girls Gone Wild'culture."That culture has been well documented. In 1971, 30 percent of American girlsages 15 to 19 had had sexual intercourse, according to the Centers for DiseaseControl and Prevention. By 1988, that number had climbed to 51 percent. Thesteady rise leveled off in the late 1980s, then dipped slightly, in part becauseof AIDS awareness campaigns. Still, a substantial number of today's teenagegirls report that they and their friends engage in casual sex with multiplepartners devoid of emotional commitments.Twenty-eight percent of girls ages 15 to 17 said that sexual intercourse was"almost always" or "most of the time" part of a casual relationship, accordingto a 2002 survey by the Kaiser Family Foundation and Seventeen magazine. Thirtypercent of girls surveyed said relationships between boyfriends and girlfriendstypically involved someone cheating or doing something sexual with someone else.Pepper Schwartz, a University of Washington professor who has been teaching andwriting about human sexuality for more than 20 years, says she's not surprisedto see more young women engage in casual sex without emotional ties. "In everyway women are becoming more like men," she says. "They are ambitious. They areaggressive. They are independent. And more and more, they participate in bloodsports, aggressive sports."Yet even Schwartz, who hosts occasional online sexual advice chats, has beenamazed at how sexually bold some young women have become. "High school girlswill be open about bisexual contact, and high school boys think bisexual girlsare the sexiest thing on Earth. One of the No. 1 questions I am asked is aboutthree-ways. 'My boyfriend asks about three-ways. Should I or shouldn't I?'"I guess it shouldn't surprise us," Schwartz concludes. "Look how much sex is onevery daytime soap opera, every sitcom. We are permeated with this stuff. Did wereally think it would just stay inside that 21-inch tube?"Sexual mores are only the crest of a tidal wave of change. In a span of about 15years during the 1960s and 1970s, Americans underwent the kind of dramatictransformation of social values that usually occurs over generations,Yankelovich says. First college students, and then an overwhelming majority ofAmericans, rejected much of the social rigidity of the 1950s. Deeply heldAmerican values such as conformity, respectability, sacrifice and duty to otherswere elbowed aside by newer values: personal satisfaction, individual choice anda pluralism that tolerates vast differences in race, religion and lifestyle.Yankelovich has coined the term "expressive individualism" to describe the newethic of personal freedom that, among other things, opened the way for women,gays and minorities to make extraordinary gains. "It was a sweeping revolution,and we are still figuring out its consequences," Yankelovich says.One unintended consequence of the revolution, he says, is that social moralityhas now become so relative it has begun to make Americans on both the left andright very anxious, although they disagree sharply on what to do about that.Yankelovich sees that nervousness in Americans' responses to events as diverseas Enron's accounting fictions, the Roman Catholic Church's protection ofpedophiles, the Iraqi prison abuse scandal and Jessica's blog."The country is taken aback by moral relativism in all of its forms,"Yankelovich says. "To me, the best way of thinking about it is that people arenow free to say: 'I didn't do anything wrong. I didn't break the law.' Anearlier generation, my own generation growing up in the United States, wouldsay, 'What has the law got to do with it?' The usual model for societies is thatthey have a very thin layer of law and a very thick layer of social morality.What this expressive individualism has done, as an unintended consequence, isweaken that layer of social morality to the point where it's almostdisappeared."In other words, we can denounce Jessica Cutler and call her a blog slut if itmakes us feel any better. But she is, for better or worse, our blog slut.THE DAY JESSICA'S BLOG WENT PUBLIC, work halted at many desks across Washingtonas Hill staffers, government bureaucrats, lobbyists and journalists forwardedlinks to friends. Jessica was quickly pegged as the unnamed staffer. From there,people speculated about the identity of her more powerful playmates and arguedabout what she represented. Was Jessica a new-media revolutionary who turned thetables on the kind of Washington men who have always expected their pretty youngplaythings to be powerless and silent? Or was she a sleazy hedonist who mademoney from her sexual liaisons? The debate hasn't ended, especially among women.On a recent weeknight, a group of young professional women sip wine after workat the 18th Street Lounge in the District and discuss the ways Jessica Cutlerseems both familiar to them and yet extreme."She depresses me. I don't think people can do those kind of things withoutemotional repercussions," says a 27-year-old who works in advertising. Thiswoman has never had a one-night stand and can't imagine engaging in casual sexwith six different men, she says. But Jessica's frank talk about sex didn'tstrike her as unusual."Women love to talk about sex," she says. "That's what we do when we gettogether and drink. If I was in a relationship with someone I cared about and Iwas concerned about my performance, I'd talk about it in graphic detail with myfriends. I've learned most of my sex tips from girlfriends."Across the street at the Lucky Bar, a group of graduate students ponder whatJessica was seeking when she kissed and blogged, and whether she ever found it."The only way she thought she could have any influence was through sex," says a24-year-old public policy student in Washington for a summer internship. "Idon't think anyone should use sex for power. If you want to have unattached,unemotional sex, that's fine. But using it for power is wrong."What is an acceptable motive for having unattached, unemotional sex?"Pleasure," she says."I HAVE A 'GLAMOUR JOB' ON THE HILL. That is, I could not care less about gov orpolitics, but working for a Senator looks good on my resume. And these marblehallways are such great places for meeting boys and showing off my outfits."This is Jessica's very first blog entry, posted at 5:32 p.m. on Wednesday, May5. But that's not where the story of Jessica's blog began.Jessica grew up in Syracuse, N.Y., the oldest of three daughters raised by aformer U.S. soldier and his Korean-born wife. Her parents fought a lot,remembers Jessica, who was in junior high when they divorced. Her mother movedout, leaving the girls to live with their father. They started leading largelyseparate lives."We all got cable in our rooms," Jessica says. "We all would just go to ourrooms at the end of the day and watch the shows we wanted to watch."From first grade through junior high, Jessica spent one day each week in aspecial program for gifted and talented children. Jessica and some of herschoolmates describe the program as pure free-to-be-you-and-me fun: Nobodygraded them; nobody gave them homework; nobody cared if they finished anything.Those classes left a mark on Jessica. "They tell you, 'You guys, you are smarterthan most people,' " recalls Jessica, whose closest friends remain the girls shemet in that program at age 7.Jessica finds it curious that she and several of her gifted classmates becameunderemployed slackers with attitudes. She wonders if that traces back to thelessons they learned in the gifted program. "You kind of create your own moraluniverse," Jessica says. "It's like, well, I like myself. If other people don'tlike me, then whatever. I'm out of here."During Jessica's teen years, her mother wasn't at home to offer admonitionsabout sex or romance, but lessons were easy to come by. Jessica, a comparativelate-bloomer, remembers some high school classmates casually listing the guysthey'd slept with and coming up with 20 or 30 partners."Sex wasn't taboo from the beginning for our generation," says Alexandra DeLuca,25, one of Jessica's closest childhood friends. "We had sex education classesfrom an early age. The assumption was you were going to have sex soon, if youweren't already. My parents never gave me the idea that sex was bad. My mom wassurprised that I wasn't having sex in high school. It never was this secretivething you are supposed to be ashamed about." The breakout movie of Jessica'sjunior high school years was "Pretty Woman," a 1990 remake of the Cinderellastory starring Julia Roberts as a prostitute who falls in love with her wealthyjohn, played by Richard Gere. He takes her power shopping, and they live happilyever after."Actually, I hated that movie when I saw it as a young teenager," says Jessica,who was 12 when the movie was released. "I was, like, that movie is incrediblysexist."Yet as a teenage student at Syracuse University, she dated a 38-year-old doctorwho liked to take her shopping for clothes. The gifts he bought her, she says,made an impression. "That's the standard you hold every guy to for the rest ofyour life."At Syracuse, Jessica worked on the school newspaper, fell in love, lost hervirginity, bounced between her father's home and friends' apartments, partiedand received lousy grades. She left after four years without earning a degree,although she listed the credential on her résumé. She insists she wasn't tryingto mislead anyone. She says she didn't realize that she hadn't been awarded adiploma until it was reported in the post-blog media frenzy. She says she musthave had some unreturned library books or unpaid parking tickets that promptedthe university to withhold her degree, although she hasn't bothered to check.Her fondest memory of college was a summer internship in New York City withNickelodeon, where she wrote funny stories for the cable network's magazine forchildren. It was a moment when life promised to be as fun and creative as herdays in the gifted and talented program.The moment was fleeting. After college, Jessica says, she squatted with friendsin an apartment under construction in New York. She didn't have a career plan,always figuring she'd worry about the future later. As she worked a series oflow-level jobs, she came to believe that no matter how smart a woman was, it washer looks that mattered."I used to read, like, Ms. Magazine and all that stuff when I was in highschool," she says. "I was really, like, earnest back then. When I grew up andsaw the way people are, I had to adapt. It's more about your looks than anythingyou can do. If you are not attractive, if you are fat, you don't get seated [ata restaurant], like, in the window or outside. If you want to do what you wantto do, you have to look a certain way."Jessica did. She burned through men and jobs in rapid succession and for muchthe same reason: She could not stand to be bored. And she bored easily. The wayJessica saw it, suckers were stuck doing things they didn't want to do. Jessicarefused.Jessica and some of her friends adopted an attitude about sex that they knewwas, in earlier generations, the purview of male cads. "I think men want tothink that for women sex equals love, but it's not like that at all," saysDeLuca, now a freelance writer in California. "Women can have a one-night standfor fun. It doesn't mean we are going to marry the man or even like him. We justthought he was hot."My girlfriends and I have talked about how if you have a one-night stand and hetries to cuddle with you, you are like, 'What are you doing? It's a one-nightstand!' It's not like he's your boyfriend or anything. Women our age do talkabout sex like men, and we do treat sex like men. It's not a terrible thing.That's what people our age do."A life of sexual freedom and ironic detachment, however, is not always as muchfun as it's portrayed in sitcoms, Jessica acknowledges. "It probably is just ahuge defense mechanism, dating several men," she says. "Because you are, like,if it doesn't go well with this guy, there's always the others," Jessica says."I think ultimately, with that kind of defense mechanism, all your relationshipsare kind of half-assed. You know?"Yet Jessica always managed to make it all sound hilarious. Job disasters andill-fated couplings were fodder for entertaining her girlfriends. Sure, it wasweird when every older guy with a big job who offered to give her a "tour" ofhis office turned out to want to do it on his sofa. Sure, it was twisted whenthe psychiatrist she dated insisted on calling her Mommy. But if she could laughabout it, how bad could it be? If she could make others laugh about it, tell andretell the stories of her life as if she were polishing a "Seinfeld" script,then she was the one in control. Wasn't she?Jessica moved to Washington last year. She thought it would be less expensivethan New York, but more exciting than some hicksville. She shared an apartmentwith the boyfriend who had, in recent years, become the closest thing she had toa steady. Sometimes they talked about getting married. Most nights, they watchedtelevision together. On weekends, Jessica shopped for cute clothes. She wasconfused, she says now. If they loved each other, why was she so bored?She began cheating with older, more powerful men she met around Washington, andshe wasn't even sure why. Maybe, she says, it was for the sheer thrill. Jessicadidn't hide from any of them that she drank heavily and used drugs such asecstasy, she says. She's tried virtually every party drug, she says, and wasamazed by how many men in Washington hadn't. "They will tell you, 'I have neverdone drugs' " she marvels. "Are you kidding me? . . . I would hope they arelying. How could you not even try it? . . . I think that's just part of beingopen-minded."She took a job answering phones at a nonprofit organization, which was aproblem. She hates answering phones. "I was kind of, like, resentful about it,"she says. Inevitably, she was fired for poor phone manners."Somebody had, like, the wrong number," Jessica recalls. "They kept calling backto yell at me. And I got into, like, a thing with them. I told them, 'This isthe wrong number!' I hung up on them. They called back and said, 'Don't hang upon me, can't you forward me?' I was like, 'No, get a phone book.'"I was spoken to about it. Then a VIP -- I mean a VIP for, like, Washington,because I don't even know who she is -- called. I think she wanted me to say,'May I ask who is calling?' I was like, 'Who is this? I need to know.' Shecomplained about me."Late last year, Jessica responded to a notice for an unpaid internship in theoffice of Connecticut Democratic Sen. Joe Lieberman because people kept tellingher that to get anywhere in Washington she needed Hill experience. She contactedthe Lieberman staffer listed as a contact on the job posting, a man she wouldlater write about in her blog. She got the internship and began in January. Herduties included occasionally answering the phone, she says.To earn money, she worked as a hostess at I Ricchi, a pricey Italian restaurantacross 19th Street NW from the Palm. That didn't last. It was raining hard thenight that "K Street," the pseudo-reality television show featuring realWashington power brokers in scripted scenarios, held a premiere party at thePalm. The whole block was mobbed. Jessica's customers were mad they had to waitfor tables. She kept losing their wet umbrellas and disappearing to look forthem. When a manager chided her for ignoring her duties at the front door, shesnapped, "I really don't give a [expletive].' And so ended another job. Asalways, Jessica telephoned and e-mailed her friends with madcap accounts of herlatest job fiasco."Jessica has been fired from more jobs than anyone I know," DeLuca says. "Shelists the jobs on her résumé that she's been fired from. Nobody checks that out.The reality, which Jessica knows, is that she's a very pretty girl. She can becharming when she wants to be. She gets hired as easily as she gets fired."And that is why DeLuca figures that all the people who employed Jessica on theHill deserved exactly what happened next. "If Capitol Hill is this shiningexample of anything, how did she get hired?" DeLuca asks. "That's why it's sosilly, people getting mad at her for bringing shame on the senator's office orthe Hill or the system. Look at the guy who hired her for an internship, thenasked her out. Look at the woman who supervised her, then pimped her out.Something is wrong with the system. It's not her."Jessica left her unpaid internship in Lieberman's office in late February for apaid, entry-level post in DeWine's office. The résumé she used to land the jobstated incorrectly that she had earned a BA from Syracuse and listed the wrongbirth date, shaving two years off her age.Right after leaving Lieberman's office, she ran into the staffer she believedhad hired her for her internship. Jessica, who by then was working for DeWine,says the man asked her out for drinks a few times, and they had sex.The Lieberman staffer in question declined to be interviewed for this story.After Jessica's blog surfaced, Lieberman asked his chief of staff to review thematter, according to Matt Gobush, the senator's director of communications.Gobush acknowledges that the Lieberman staffer was listed as the contact on theinternship posting Jessica responded to and that he had sat in on her interview.But ultimately that staffer did not make the decision to hire her, Gobush says.Although Gobush says the matter is still under review, any alleged sexualcontact between a staffer and a former intern would not violate the officepolicy prohibiting sexual harassment.But Jessica had definitely violated the policies of her live-in boyfriend. Afterhe discovered that she'd cheated on him, she moved out and got her ownapartment. By the first week of May, she was having flings with so many guysthat reporting them all to her girlfriends was starting to feel like way toomuch work."So I sent a mass e-mail out: 'You guys, should I have my own blog or what?' Iwas kidding," Jessica says. "But they were all, like, 'Yes, if anyone shouldhave a blog it's you, because you have the most interesting life.' "The electronic bulletin board where Jessica began posting her online diaryoffered her the option of creating a password so no one could read it withouther consent."But I thought that was, like, too much trouble for my friends to have to typein a password," Jessica says. "I thought there are so many people with their ownblogs, mine is not even going to come up on the radar."UNTIL RECENTLY, MANY AMERICANS HAD NEVER HEARD THE TERM BLOG. Web logs were thealmost exclusive purview of techies. Now an estimated 3 million Americansmaintain blogs, which range from tame online diaries to comic fantasies, fromworkplace chronicles to political screeds. Many are posted anonymously, andthere is no way to judge their veracity.Bloggers circumvent traditional information gatekeepers, such as newspapers,magazines and book publishers, by telling their story their way. In Louisiana,for example, a former state trooper battling leukemia is blogging hisexperiences in an experimental drug trial -- months before the doctors publishtheir results.The gatekeepers are scrambling to respond. Advertisers now pay for space onpopular blogs. Book agents and publishers routinely scan blogs looking for newtalent like the blogger-turned-author who posted a fictional account of life asParis Hilton's pet Chihuahua. Bloggers have been credentialed to cover thissummer's political conventions.Yet there can be serious consequences for tell-all blogging. Heather Armstrong,29, learned that the hard way."I tell people, whoever you think is not going to read your Web site will findyour Web site," Armstrong says. "They specifically will find it and read it, andall hell will break loose."She started her blog three years ago. She was living in Los Angeles, working asa Web-site designer and trying to reinvent herself."I talked about having sex. I talked about drinking. I talked about havinglesbian fantasies," says Armstrong, who grew up in a strict Mormon family wherecaffeine was verboten and premarital sex unthinkable.Armstrong didn't worry about her family reading her blog. Nobody in her familyeven had Internet access. But then her brother got a home computer. "He wasappalled," Armstrong says. "My mother called me at work. She was bawling for anhour. She couldn't understand what she had done wrong. My father told me I was avile human being and I had succumbed to the dark side. He didn't talk to me formonths."I should have learned my lesson then." But she didn't. Four months later,Armstrong was sitting at her desk at work when she called up an e-mail. Someonehad sent every vice president in her company an e-mail directing them to herblog. A few days later, she was fired.Armstrong believes that her blog did help her decide who she wanted to be. Andshe's never stopped chronicling her life. But she's much more careful what sheposts now that she is married and has a new baby. She knows that once she'sposted something it will always exist somewhere in the blogosphere.Nevertheless, she still has to remind herself to be her own censor."The scary thing is that here I am on my computer," she says. "I don't seeanyone reading it. I don't see their faces."A FREELANCE WRITER JESSICA HAD MET ON A VISIT to New York was proving anannoying house guest. Having sex with him was one thing, but staying under thesame roof with him was unbearable. When he finally headed home May 5, Jessicaheralded his departure in her brand-new blog."Just got off the phone with [the writer]," she typed. "Making sure he is out ofmy apartment and on his way back to NY. I have a date with [my former live-inboyfriend] tonight and do not need [the writer] to blow up my spot."Jessica says her blog had an initial target audience of three: DeLuca near SanDiego, Rachel Robertson in New York City and a friend on the Hill. Jessica had afew ground rules for her blog. Everything she posted was true, she told herfriends, and nobody would be identified by their full names, just initials."So, like, 15 minutes after I wrote yesterday's last post," she wrote on DayTwo, "[The Lieberman staffer] calls me and asks me out for a drink, knowing thatI have plans at 8 p.m. I met him in Hart and . . . he followed me home around7:30."Jessica lamented that she didn't have time for a "quickie." She had to throw theLieberman staffer out before her former live-in boyfriend arrived at 8 p.m.Despite the former live-in's anger at Jessica's infidelity, the two were stillseeing each other -- having sex, watching TV and fighting. There was no wayJessica wanted him to catch her again with another man. "In summary, Wednesdaywas a revolving door of men, with me pushing one out after another," she wrote.Late in the morning on that same day, May 6, Jessica posted an entry noting herfavorite things about Washington. "Love how hard-up the men are. Love these easygov jobs." To Jessica, being on the Hill was a lot like high school: hordes ofhormonally charged people trapped together all day, flirting in the halls andcafeteria."Item!" Jessica posted at 5:54 p.m. on May 6. "A new contender for my fair hand.He works in one of the Committee offices . . . [He] had my boss ask me out forhim! She actually came in here and said, 'He thinks you're hot.' How juniorhigh! So all three of us are getting a drink at Union Station after work.Looking forward to an evening full of awkward moments."Jessica says she found it odd that one senior colleague in her office wouldarrange a night out for her with another senior colleague. Jessica called herfriend Rachel Robertson to consult. "My first reaction was, 'You should sue forsexual harassment,' " Robertson says. "Obviously this isn't supposed to happen.It's using your authority to further someone's sexual life. It's harder to sayno when your boss is trying to fix you up with someone. I thought it was prettymessed up at the time, and Jessica did, too."Since the watershed sexual harassment scandals of the 1990s -- a decade in whichAnita Hill faced down Supreme Court nominee Clarence Thomas during hisconfirmation hearings, a series of women accused former senators Brock Adams andBob Packwood of predatory sexual advances, and President Bill Clinton facedimpeachment for having sexual contact with a White House intern and then lyingabout it -- almost every Washington workplace, including Senate offices, has awritten policy prohibiting or discouraging sexual contact between colleagues,especially those of unequal power.While Jessica referred to the woman as her "boss," DeWine's communicationsdirector, Mike Dawson, says that's not true. Neither the woman nor the committeestaffer directly supervised Jessica or had the power to promote or fire her,Dawson says. Thus, their alleged behavior wouldn't be prohibited by the office'ssexual harassment policy, he says.Jessica's blog postings at 9:35 the next morning made it clear she wasn'tthinking about suing anyone. "[He] looks just like George Clooney when he takesoff his glasses," she wrote. "I am serious . . . I put the moves on HIM . . . SoI'm seeing ANOTHER person on the Hill. At least this one is counsel, and not anaide.""Going to lunch with coworkers today," she noted. "Have a feeling I was invitedas the new star of Hot Office Gossip, like a press conference." After lunch, thenews about her evening spread."The boss who pimped me out to [the committee staffer] just stopped by," Jessicawrote in her blog at 2:02 p.m. on May 7. "She mentioned that [he] is verydiscreet, so I am taking that as a hint to keep quiet. Finally, she asked me ifI would say yes if he asked me out again. I told her that I would. So it lookslike I might have another boyfriend. I hope this does not end badly."Before her workday ended, Jessica made a date with a man she said was a rich,older Georgetown lawyer. At 6:38 p.m. Jessica posted a new blog entry,announcing "This is the plan:" Take a cab over to the rich lawyer's place inGeorgetown. Have sex. Get dinner someplace expensive. Get the lawyer to driveher home to Capitol Hill. Go to a keg party at the house of a co-worker fromDeWine's office. Maybe have sex with somebody new there. "Get 8 hours sleep,"she concluded.Her tone was cavalier as usual. But her Friday  night date with the Georgetownlawyer turned out to be dreadful, Jessica reported in her blog. He wanted a kindof sex that physically hurt Jessica. Only this time, for a change, Jessicarefused, and the lawyer became so belligerent that she went home without evengetting an expensive dinner out of the deal. The next night, she went out withher girlfriends and got so drunk that she passed out on her floor. Come Mondaymorning, Jessica struggled to make any of it sound remotely funny."I am done with [him], for real this time," Jessica posted on Monday, May 10."The whole situation depressed me so much, I turned down a free dinner and askedhim to take me home. He peeled off a few hundred from that roll of cash hecarries around, and put the hundreds in my hand as I was getting out of the car.I acted indignant, like I don't need his help, but I kept it: why punishmyself?"Less than an hour later, Jessica's blog announced a change of plans regardingthe lawyer. He "just e-mailed me, 'How was your weekend? Thinking of you!'"Jessica noted. "Ugh. I wrote back, 'From now on, we should go out drinkingbefore we go back to your place. I think that would improve everything.' I knowI said it was 'over,' but it's not like it matters either way. What can I say, Ilike money."The lawyer wasn't the only man giving her cash. She'd been meeting a marriedBush appointee in Washington hotels for months. She genuinely liked him, shesays. The first time he handed her an envelope with cash in it she says she wassurprised, grateful and more than a little embarrassed. "I wasn't a hookercharging him," she insists."I felt guilty about the money," she says. "The whole premise for that was thathe's married, we cannot go out together, we cannot be seen together, there's nofuture . . . So the money was like consideration for that. It was really like agift. Unfortunately, I became dependent on that income." She was only earning$25,000 a year, she says. How could anyone live on that?Jessica's friends weren't shocked by her talk of sex for money. They knew shewas writing about it in the most exaggerated, offhand way possible to amusethem, and they weren't about to judge her. "It sounds bad, but it's really aperspective thing," Robertson says. "These were guys were giving her money forreasons of their own. She never asked them for money. She never said, 'If I dothis, you give me that.' "Although Robertson wasn't outraged, she was confused. She couldn't keep all themen in Jessica's blog straight. She suggested Jessica post some kind of guide."By popular demand, I have finally created a key to keeping my sex lifestraight," Jessica wrote on the afternoon of May 11." After producing a briefdescription of each man identified by his initials, she lamented: "I'm [havingsex with] six guys. Ewww."ON FRIDAY, MAY 14, Jessica informed her readers that her former steady boyfriendhad visited her apartment the night before and discovered evidence that she wasstill cheating on him. "He will probably never speak to me again," she wrote. "Ifeel bad about what I did to [him] and I feel like our relationship deservesmore than a short write-off, but we both need to move on . . . So I called [thecommittee staffer] after [my old steady] left in a huff. I ended up sleepingover in Bethesda for the third night in a row. He wants us to get testedtogether so we can stop using condoms. Isn't that sweet? Hope I don't haveanything! So I don't know if it's getting serious or what. We're seeing eachother every day now. I like him very much and he likes me. But can it goanywhere, i.e. marriage? I don't know. He's Jewish, I'm not . . . But we worktogether, so there is an incentive to stay together and avoid an awkwardbreakup. And after a few months, people around the office will start 'hearingwedding bells.' I really just want to be a Jewish housewife with a big rock onmy finger."They had been dating one week.In California, DeLuca was starting to think the impossible: Jessica might justsettle down with the committee staffer. "Right before all this happened, she wason the phone to me saying, 'Allie, I'm really crazy about this guy. I know it'sonly been a week, but I'm not going to see anybody else.' " Jessica was eventhinking about giving up the blog, she told her friend Robertson: If she wasgoing to go steady, the blog could get pretty boring.Jessica had a previously set lunch date for her birthday. She was meeting themarried Bush administration official at a hotel. "I just took a long lunch with[him] and made a quick $400," she posted at 2:10 p.m. on May 18. "When Ireturned to the office, I heard that my boss was asking about my whereabouts.Loser."She dreaded tackling the boring stack of mail on her desk. So she went to theSenate cafeteria to get a cup of coffee. It was her birthday, after all.She hadn't been back at her desk more than a few minutes before the two instantmessages popped up on her screen in rapid succession:"Oh my God, you're famous.""Your blog is on Wonkette."Plenty of people in Washington believe Jessica was angling for a book contractfrom her first blog entry and engineered Wonkette's discovery of the blog.Jessica says that's not true, and Wonkette, aka Ana Marie Cox, backs her up.Wonkette received an anonymous tip about the blog, Cox says."I have no reason to believe that Jessica was the tipster," Cox writes in ane-mail. "I suppose it's possible that Jessica is some kind of a publicity geniusand engineered the entire thing without my knowing, but if she was thatbrilliant, then she probably would not have had to have gentleman callers helpsubsidize her income. She'd be the PR rep for Kenneth Lay or something."Cox, who is 31 and lives in Arlington, didn't get a book deal out of thescandal, but traffic on her site exploded, with more than 1.5 million visits inMay. All the attention didn't hurt. Wonkette was hired to cover the recentDemocratic National Convention for MTV.JESSICA IS DRESSED IN WHITE. She walks through her all-white apartment. She is avision of American purity: pure commerce. Dress by Gap. Bedding by MarthaStewart.On the kitchen counter there is an empty bottle of Southern Comfort. On a shelfsits a pop art portrait of Jackie Kennedy. Jessica evokes another iconic female:Holly Golightly, the heroine of "Breakfast at Tiffany's.""There are certain shades of limelight that can ruin a girl's complexion," shesays, quoting the book she read in high school. "That's how I feel. Can't get ajob. Can't get a boyfriend. And this did ruin my complexion because I'mdehydrated."While Jessica was on a recent stroll with girlfriends, some guy recognized herand yelled, "Hey, Washingtonienne." That was kind of cool. In bars, men ask herif she's Jessica Cutler, then give her their business cards and tell her tocall.Jessica has an agent. She's busy writing her novel. "It's kind of 'The DevilWears Prada,' only set in Washington," she says. "I can't say how it turns outbecause my agent would kill me."She can't fathom how her own story will end.It's 10 p.m. on a Wednesday. She is going out. On the way to Saki, an AdamsMorgan nightclub, Jessica seems uncharacteristically forlorn. "I had sixboyfriends, and now none of the guys really want to have anything to do withme," she says. "I guess none of them really cared about me in the first place."She's embarrassed about posting that gushy stuff on her blog about wanting to bea Jewish wife with a rock on her hand. Reading that now makes her feel veryexposed. Really, she says, she can't quite imagine a life of matrimonial bondsand monogamy."I think people are -- and this isn't something I came up with, I heard itsomewhere -- people are as faithful as their options," she says. "If you thinkthere's no chance of getting caught or something, you'll do it. I'm sure noteveryone is like that. I know that I'm that way."Outside the nightclub, there is a line of people waiting to get in. Jessica, whois being followed by a photographer snapping her picture for this story, sweepspast the line and heads for the bar in the basement of the club.She has friends there waiting for her in a coveted corner table. The table is aperk some deejay has arranged. He sits next to Jessica. The club is loud. Thethumping music and flashing lights are jarring. Jessica looks self-conscious asthe photographer snaps frame after frame of her.Before long, a hostess gives Jessica, her friends and the deejay some bad news:They are being dumped from their corner table. "Somebody who is going to spend alot of money wants it," Jessica says.She shrugs. "I never had a table before." It was cool while it lasted.April Witt is a staff writer for the Magazine. Researcher Julie Tate contributedto this article. Witt will be fielding questions and comments about this articleat 1 p.m. Monday on washingtonpost.com/liveonline.