Jonathan CapehartThe GOP's (little blue) poison pillsRepublicans have made it known that they will stop at nothing to kill thehealth-care legislation that is now law. Some are pursuing repeal. Others aremoving down a craftier route. Take Sen. Tom Coburn (R-Okla.), who issued a listof nine amendments to the reconciliation bill that are designed for maximumembarrassment. The one that has gotten the most attention is "No ErectileDysfunction Drugs to Sex Offenders." If Democrats vote against the measure,they'll be portrayed as being in bed with child molesters and other perverts. Ifthey vote for it and the measure gets approved, those "fixes" the House approvedwith fanfare last weekend would have to go back to the House for yet anothervote. These amendments took a lot of time to craft. Would that the Republicanshad expended as much energy coming up with real proposals during health-carenegotiations as they did with these poison pills.Stephen StrombergHow little we know about NovemberDemocrats and Republicans are falling over themselves to explain how passinghealth care will hurt or help their chances in November, and commentators arespilling gallons of ink and pixels handing out unsolicited counsel on howpoliticians should play their votes in seven months.But as Politics Daily's Walter Shapiro advised those caught in the rush: Stoppretending  you know what's going to drive the congressional elections. Becauseyou don't.Shapiro looked to the 2006 midterms, before which commentators had predictedthat Democrats would make gains based on the Dubai Ports World deal that fellapart under the Bush administration. Don't remember Dubai Ports? Few do.Throughout 2007, conventional wisdom in Washington held that Iraq would be thedominant issue in the 2008 election, given the political hubbub over the "surge"and widespread popular dissatisfaction with the war. Yet Iraq turned out to beof shockingly little importance during the general election campaign. Sure, thatwas a presidential election, not a midterm, but that means that the media andvoters were focused on the candidates for longer stretches, which should haveworked to make distant events more consequential. And, yes, America did have aneconomic near-meltdown in the intervening months. But that just demonstratesthat new events can easily overtake those issues that look really important now.And health care is ripe for falling down the list of voters' considerations,even if some calamity doesn't strike before November. Because so much of thebill doesn't kick in for a year or more, neither Republicans' doomsdaypredictions nor Democrats' utopian prognostications about near-term effects willhave materialized.