IT'S FEBRUARY 15, 2000, a pivotal moment in the race for the Republicannomination for president, and at the televised candidates' debate in Columbia,S.C., temperatures are rising.John McCain, fresh off an upset victory in the New Hampshire primary, has runinto a buzz saw of negative advertising about his record and rumor-mongeringabout his personal life, and he blames his main opponent, George W. Bush."You should be ashamed," a tight-lipped McCain scolds Bush.Bush has his own beef: McCain's ads have likened Bush's character to that ofBill Clinton. "You can disagree with me on issues, John, but do not question  --do not question my trustworthiness."". . . You're putting out stuff that is unbelievable, George, and it's got tostop," McCain retorts. ". . . This is probably the nastiest campaign that peoplehave seen in a long time."". . . Listen, you're playing the victim here," Bush shoots back. "Wait aminute, remember who called who untrustworthy."Six years later, Bush is president and McCain is preparing for another run forthe White House. He's in Michigan on a Friday afternoon at the start of a longweekend of raising money for local Republican candidates and laying thegroundwork for 2008. And everywhere he goes, he's got only good things to sayabout George W. Bush.He praises Bush's steadfastness on the war in Iraq and says he's especiallyproud of Bush's support for the Senate's immigration bill. "I think thepresident has shown a lot of courage on this issue," he tells a crowd ofactivists at Kent County GOP headquarters in Grand Rapids, many of whom seem alot less certain on the matter.So, what's changed since 2000? someone in the audience asks McCain."My personality has improved significantly," quips the senator from Arizona. "Itook a Dale Carnegie course."Then, more seriously: "I think it's very clear that then-Gov. Bush had thesupport of the Republican establishment. He worked hard for it, and he gainedit, and he deserved it." Leaving little doubt that McCain would like toaccomplish the same thing himself this time around.He's no longer offering himself as the alternative to Bush. Now he's positionedhimself as Bush's heir, a turnaround that makes some people, including McCainsometimes, more than a little uncomfortable.Such is the case when McCain pays a visit to "The Daily Show With Jon Stewart" afew weeks later. McCain's almost a regular here, and Stewart usually treats himlike he's Abraham Lincoln without the whiskers and the stovepipe hat. Buttonight Stewart badgers McCain about Bush's claim that he has made the world asafer place. "My question to you is simply this: How much safer can the worldafford to have him make us?"McCain rolls his eyes. He makes a joke about calling in his lawyers. He hems andhaws to the point where Stewart pleads, "Don't dodge the question!" But McCaincontinues to do exactly that. Finally, Stewart relents. "We're gonna come backand talk about other things," he says at the break."Thank God," says McCain.DON'T LOOK NOW, but 26 months before November 2008 the race for president hasalready started. McCain and his potential rivals are out on the campaign trailvirtually every week. They are raising money and support for federal and statecandidates in the 2006 election. But they are also collecting chits, buildingname recognition and garnering backers for the presidential campaign to come."Teddy White must be turning over in his grave," says John Weaver, McCain'schief campaign strategist, referring to the late author of The Making of thePresident books. "I can't believe we're doing this so early."But doing it they are. And no one more assiduously, nor with more apparentsuccess, than McCain, who has vaulted to the front of the GOP field. Early pollsindicate he gets twice as much support as any other likely Republican candidateexcept Rudy Giuliani, the former mayor of New York City, who runs close behind.Even in liberal, blue-state strongholds such as Massachusetts, McCain runs evenwith or better than the two most recognizable Democratic names, Hillary Clintonand Al Gore. As a former Navy pilot who was shot down over Hanoi and spent morethan five years as a prisoner of war, he's got impeccable military credentialsand stature, and a reputation for bipartisanship and fierce independence thatappeals to a broad spectrum of voters. He's also got star power: Turn on yourtelevision most days, and you'll find McCain on one of the morning talkfests oron "Larry King Live," "Imus" or "Hannity and Colmes."Many of the Republican professionals who once wrote off McCain as the loosest ofpolitical cannons say they are surprised and impressed at the careful,disciplined way he and his staff have gone about establishing his as yetundeclared candidacy. He is laboring hard to become the presumptive candidatefor a party that almost always nominates the presumptive candidate."He's very much where George W. Bush was in 1998 and '99  --  getting his teamestablished, trying to create that same air of inevitability that Karl Rovetried to create around Bush," says Saul Anuzis, chairman of Michigan'sRepublican Party, referring to Bush's political Rasputin.Still, there are many rivers to cross before November 2008. McCain has tovanquish a formidable cast of possible Republican opponents, which could includeSens. George Allen (Va.), Sam Brownback (Kan.), Bill Frist (Tenn.) and ChuckHagel (Neb.), along with Newt Gingrich, Giuliani and Massachusetts Gov. MittRomney. He also faces a host of enemies among Republican interest groups andsocial conservatives who have not forgiven or forgotten his run as aniconoclastic insurgent in 2000 and who dislike some of the positions hecurrently holds on litmus-test issues such as the gay marriage amendment (he'sagainst it) and stem cell research (he's for it).To succeed, McCain must perform the old political two-step: Capture conservativeRepublican loyalists who dominate the party's nominating process; then, oncenominated, swing back to the center to attract independents and moderateDemocrats. It's an especially tricky task for a politician who has always casthimself as a man of unvarnished principles and straight talk.McCain concedes he's being more careful with his rhetoric and off-the-cuffcomments. Which is why he looked so uncomfortable with Jon Stewart: "I don'twant to say anything that I'm going to be hearing about for the next couple ofyears."Otherwise, he insists, nothing's changed  --  except perhaps the perceptions ofsome analysts. "Some on the liberal side say, 'Ah, McCain's not the maverickthat we thought he was. Oh my God, he supports the war in Iraq! How could he!'And some of my friends on the right say, 'Well, he voted against the marriageamendment,'" which would ban gay marriage.In many ways, he's still the same sly, sardonic and self-deprecatory candidatewho charmed the press and a surprisingly large segment of the public in 2000,the quixotic reformer whom political columnist Joe Klein described as "a man ona white horse attempting to traverse a muddy field."But he's more guarded, more deferential to Bush and all the president's men,more inclined to emphasize his old-fashioned conservative credentials and todownplay those progressive ones. There are fewer confessional moments and evenfewer incendiary ones. The man who says his favorite president is theroughriding Theodore Roosevelt sounds more like another military man who becamepresident, the cautious elder statesman Dwight Eisenhower.Even so, McCain still revels in the spotlight and the sheer giddiness of publiclife. "The next day after 'The Daily Show,' I walked into the building and, I'mnot exaggerating, 100 interns told me, 'I saw you on Jon Stewart!'"You gotta walk the tightrope," he says. "Life's too short to do it anydifferent."HE BOUNDS UP THE STEPS of the small Beechjet 400A and pours himself into aleather seat. "This is gonna be a fun trip," he declares as the plane preparesto take off for the Michigan trip. He launches into an analysis of Michiganpolitics, sprinkled with conversational detours to South Africa in the 1980s, anew book he's reading on the Iraq war and the trials and tribulations of theArizona Diamondbacks.McCain turns 70 on Tuesday, and his thinning hair is snowy white. The angularbaby face of his Vietnam-era photos is now a full moon with a smooth, doughychin the color of Pillsbury flour. Two angry red scars plunge down the left sideof his cheek in front of his ear, mementos of melanoma surgery in 2000. Whilethey are striking, they seem to fit the biography and the aura. It's easy toimagine that they were inflicted by his North Vietnamese captors, not by acancer surgeon.His shoulders are stiff, and he takes aspirin for the pain. He boasts that he'sbeen written up in orthopedic medical journals because his arms, broken when heejected from his crippled fighter jet over Hanoi in 1967, were left to heal ontheir own without proper treatment, making him something of a medicalphenomenon.He leaves on his crisp blue blazer even in the privacy of the small plane, andhe doesn't loosen his tie. Later, when it's finally time for the coat to comeoff, he turns to Weaver, who gently pulls the jacket from his shoulders. "Easy,Johnny," McCain hums softly. "Easy does it."The schedule can be grueling, but Weaver tries to ensure that, except whenMcCain does the morning talk shows, the senator doesn't have to rise too earlyor stay up too late. Still, like any canny road warrior, McCain knows to catch aquick bite to eat or a few minutes' sleep whenever the opportunity arises. Onthis flight, he goes from full-bore conversation to a wispy snore withinminutes, his eyes concealed behind a pair of opaque, wraparound Ray-Bans. Buteven when napping he doesn't seem to miss much.So how long have you two been traveling together? I ask Weaver after McCainappears to have dozed off."Too long," a suddenly wide awake McCain interjects with a crooked grin. "Muchtoo long."WEAVER, 45, is a lanky, laconic campaign veteran who first joined McCain in 1998after working for candidates in his native Texas. He says he loved the loose,improvised nature of the 2000 presidential run, yet always feared it was doomed."Crusades are easier than structured campaigns," he says. "You have lessresponsibility and more freedom. But you always lose in the end."When McCain began organizing his 2000 race, he had 3 percent name recognitionand virtually no treasury. People vaguely knew his biography  --  that hisfather and grandfather were Navy admirals and that he himself was a Vietnam Warhero. He had come home from a Hanoi prison to a hero's welcome in 1973 andlanded a job as the Navy's liaison officer to the Senate, where he studiednational security policy at the foot of masters such as Sens. Scoop Jackson andJohn Tower. He also divorced his first wife, Carol  --  in one of his many actsof self-confession, he has admitted he was unfaithful  --  and married CindyHensley, whose politically well-connected father owned Arizona's largest beerdistributorship. McCain moved there to seek political office. He won acongressional seat in 1982, then was elected to Barry Goldwater's Senate seat in1986 when the conservative icon retired.His political career was nearly derailed by scandal a few years later. McCainwas the sole Republican among the "Keating Five"  --  senators accused ofintervening with federal regulators on behalf of Charles Keating, an Arizonasavings-and-loan magnate whose financial failure in the late 1980s costtax-payers $2 billion. McCain was cleared of wrongdoing by a Senateinvestigation, but he was deemed to have used "poor judgment." He calls hisinvolvement with Keating "the worst mistake of my life." Afterward, he emergedas the Senate's most ardent champion of campaign finance reform.McCain says he didn't really think about running for president until he'dfinished campaigning for his friend and GOP nominee Bob Dole in 1996. He says hesimply believed his military and political experience made him the best-equippedcandidate to restore America's confidence in its public institutions.By 1998, he was ready. Besides Weaver, he hired another veteran Republicanoperator, Rick Davis, to be his campaign manager. Both men had had run-ins withKarl Rove and the Bush political machine, and each was intrigued by thechallenge of going up against it. McCain's campaign had only one asset: aspirited, experienced candidate with a large store of foreign policy expertiseand the ability to think fast on his feet."Every presidential campaign has to be designed around the candidate," saysDavis. "You can run for dogcatcher, and nobody will ever know who you reallyare. You run for president, and you are stripped bare. Those klieg lights are sobright. So we just built it around John, who he was, what he was."To underline who he was, McCain and his longtime chief aide, Mark Salter, wroteFaith of My Fathers, a stirring yet self-deprecatory account of his life andtimes that emphasized the McCain family tradition of military service andpatriotic sacrifice. Most campaign biography books die a quick death. Faith ofMy Fathers, which appeared in 1999, was a bestseller.With little money to buy ads, Davis, Weaver and company concentrated instead onearning their ebullient candidate lots of free coverage in newspapers, magazinesand on television. "We knew that John could carry on a conversation with anyreporter for 24 hours a day," says Davis. "So we based our whole campaign modelon 'earned media.' If a reporter wanted to fly with him or get an interview,we'd say: 'He's going to the West Coast. You can sit next to him on the plane;you can have the hotel room next to his; you can be in the car with him theentire time.'"The same strategy produced the campaign bus, dubbed "Straight Talk Express," inwhich McCain, positioned in a red leather swivel chair like a prime minister,held a running all-day news conference for the media pack. All of it was on therecord, much of it lively and self-lacerating."This was not the model of choice," says Weaver. "It was the necessity model."There were times when the unexpurgated McCain drove the staff crazy. Weaverrecalls early on in New Hampshire when a textile worker at a town hall meetingexpressed concern that his children wouldn't be able to work at the local millbecause foreign companies were taking away jobs. "John told the man frankly thathe hoped he had a higher ambition for his children than to be textile workers.Salter and I just got up and left the room shaking our heads" at the bluntness.When McCain beat Bush in New Hampshire by 19 percentage points, the StraightTalk Express became the hottest ticket in mediadom. Television news anchors andmedia executives vied with working journalists for seats. McCain's staff had toorganize lists of reservations like the maitre d' at L'Escargot.The wheels came off in South Carolina. The Bush machine and its legions pouredmillions into the campaign there. Anonymous fliers claimed McCain had fatheredan illegitimate black child with a prostitute, that he was mentally unstablebecause of his POW experience and that his wife, Cindy, was a drug addict (sheacknowledged she had become addicted to painkillers for a time after backsurgery). Republican interest groups, angered by McCain's championing ofcampaign finance reform, targeted him as well."What happened in South Carolina was as bad as people say, and then some,"recalls Sen. Lindsey Graham, a Republican from the state and one of McCain'sbest friends in the Senate. "Every group in the country who makes money offpolitics declared war on John McCain."After his defeat, McCain journeyed to Virginia Beach, home of televangelist PatRobertson, one of his right-wing critics, and denounced Robertson and fellowChristian conservative Jerry Falwell as "agents of intolerance." Riffing toreporters on the bus the next morning, McCain joked about battling "the forcesof evil." It was the supreme moment of McCain's insurgency: the maverick whiteknight tilting at the legions of religious bigotry. Many left-leaningcommentators applauded his audacity. But Republican voters were less enthralled.McCain defeated Bush in Michigan and Arizona. But social conservatives andmainstream Republicans handed him defeats in the Super Tuesday primaries in nineof 13 states, including California, New York and Ohio.The insurgency was over."YOU LEARN," SAYS MCCAIN, recalling the bitter lesson of his 2000 defeat. "Youreally do learn." He's sitting in his senatorial office on a quiet afternoon,his black loafers leveraged against the coffee table, contemplating hisevolution from caped crusader to putative front-runner. "One of the things thathappened in South Carolina is that I became angry, and I let my anger show. Itgot me off message, got me kind of off stride. And people don't like that. Whatthey care about is what you're gonna do for them as president of the UnitedStates."At first, he seemed crushed. He told friends he would never run again. Cindydragged him off to Tahiti for an enforced break. "It felt wonderful to wallow inself-pity for 10 days," he recalls. "But that was enough."Upon his return, he was surprised to discover that rather than condemning him tooblivion, the defeat had enhanced his national stature and name recognition. Heincreasingly became the go-to senator for television commentators on foreignaffairs and military policy. After the 9/11 attacks, McCain seemed to pop upeven more often on news shows, offering words of comfort and determination. Hebecame so popular with independents and many Democrats that Democratic nomineeJohn Kerry tried to persuade him in 2004 to become his vice presidential runningmate.His relationship with Bush has been a work in progress. Both sides say themutual hostility of the 2000 campaign began to dissipate after McCain and Bushmet in Pittsburgh later that spring and agreed to work together. McCaindutifully campaigned for Bush and other Republican candidates. "The relationshiphas grown warmer over time," says McCain. "We get along very well."The strategists have followed the lead of their bosses: Weaver says he and Rovesat down for coffee in 2004 and put aside their differences. McCain's camp hasalready signed at least two of Bush's former operatives for the battle to come."You're dealing with people who are professionals," says a senior Republicanofficial with close ties to the president. "Everybody in Bush world understandsthe most important legacy this president will leave is in dealing with the waron terror with moral clarity. And there's been no more steadfast and articulateproponent of that central policy goal than John McCain."McCain himself notes that there are several areas in which he continues todisagree with Bush, but even there he tends to make allowances. Last year hepushed through an amendment explicitly banning torture of terrorist suspectsthat Bush opposed. Bush signed the bill but issued a "signing statement" leavinghim the option of waiving the ban when national security is at stake. McCainsays he's not troubled by the statement because Bush has personally assured himhe will enforce the law.Recently McCain was among seven Republican senators who voted against aconstitutional amendment banning gay marriage and was among 19 who voted forfederal funding for embryonic stem cell research, both of which put him at oddswith the president. He frequently chides the administration for poor planningand execution of the war in Iraq. But on the campaign trail McCain takes painsto pay homage to the president's "courage and commitment" in staying the courseboth on the war and on supporting immigration reform.His staff insists these statements are not the result of political calculation.In fact, just the opposite: At a time many Republicans are distancing themselvesfrom the politically wounded president, McCain is embracing him."I feel more comfortable disagreeing with the president when his numbers are upthan when they're down," he says. "It's just my nature to not want to pile on."Still, the detente has paid early dividends for McCain in important battlegroundstates. Ana Navarro, a Republican activist in Miami, says big-time donors loyalto the Bush family are signing up to contribute to McCain. Ronald Weiser, aMichigan real estate developer who was Bush's state finance chairman in 2000,told me he's now backing McCain. Even Sam and Charles Wyly, two Texasbusinessmen and longtime Bush supporters who funded $2 million in attack adsagainst McCain in 2000, have given McCain's political action committee $20,000(the PAC announced recently it was returning the donation because the brothersreportedly are under investigation for possible tax infractions)."We didn't go to the Wyly brothers; they came to us," says campaign managerDavis. So did many others in the fundraising community. "They see John as awinner, and that's where they want to place their bets."McCain says he started thinking about running for president again on the dayafter the November 2004 election. Then Iraq heated up while the domesticcenterpiece of Bush's second term, Social Security reform, died in congressionalcommittee. As Bush's poll ratings plunged, the political class and itschroniclers in the media started focusing on the race to come  --  and on McCainas the one man who could preserve the White House for Republicans. "All of asudden we were drinking from a fire hose, and it hasn't stopped," says Davis."Nobody sat around and wrote out a strategy. It just happened."McCain has already raised $6 million and donated $1.2 million to Republicancandidates, says Davis, twice as much as any other Republican. Staff membersknow they won't be working on a shoestring in 2008."We'll be in good shape," says Weaver. "We'll have a 50-state structure by earlynext year, as opposed to a three-state structure last time. The house will beready. Hopefully, we'll have an occupant."THIS PAST MAY, the potential occupant was in Lynchburg, Va., attempting somemajor repairs. McCain came here to give the commencement address at LibertyUniversity at the invitation of its founder and president, Falwell, his formerantagonist. Dozens of reporters and camera crews made the journey fromWashington to record the cessation of hostilities between a leader of theChristian right and one of its most visible critics. Both men smiled for thecameras, and Falwell told everyone who asked that he believed McCain was one ofseveral intriguing prospective presidential candidates whom he could support in2008. Neither made any reference to the South Carolina primary or McCain's"agents of intolerance" speech.McCain did four university commencement speeches this past season. At each hegave the same talk, emphasizing civility and pleading for Americans to recognizeone another's essential goodwill even as they carry on a spirited debate ondivisive gut-wrenching issues such as the war in Iraq. At Liberty, the speechwent down easy, garnering polite applause from graduating seniors and theirparents. But on a grassy ridge just beyond the campus, a small band of studentsgathered to protest McCain's appearance.Being members of the right-wing Young Americans for Freedom, the protesters wereneatly dressed and painfully polite. They were also extremely fed up withMcCain. On every issue they ticked off  --  immigration, campaign financereform, the gay marriage amendment  --  McCain was on the wrong side. "Onimmigration, he's the symbol of the amnesty movement; he's spoken outconsistently against Christians, comparing us to Louis Farrakahn; and he votedagainst the marriage amendment," said Nathan Rager, 20, a political sciencemajor. McCain could talk all day long about civilized discourse andreconciliation; Rager and his friends weren't buying.Neither are many other movement conservatives. Grover Norquist, head ofAmericans for Tax Reform and a longtime McCain antagonist, has accused him offlip-flopping on gun control and taxes. Lou Sheldon, founder of the TraditionalValues Coalition, has said McCain is not a loyal Republican. Rush Limbaugh hasdenounced him as a "RINO  --  Republican in Name Only."McCain concedes that some Christian conservatives will never accept him. Butthere are others who appreciate his antiabortion voting record, his support forIsrael, his loyalty to the president and even his support for legislationcombating climate change, which has become an important issue for someevangelicals. When I ask him about Falwell, he pulls out a photo the rotundreverend inscribed for him at the Liberty commencement. It reads: "You are agreat American, a national treasure and I am glad to say my good friend.""He may well endorse someone else for president," says McCain. "But he's not myenemy. He's my friend."McCain emphasizes his solid conservative voting record  --  he's antiabortion,anti-gun control, pro-death penalty, and he favors cutting back the size andreach of the federal government, with the vehement exception of the Pentagon. Hehas switched his stand on ethanol, which he once derided as a boondoggle but nowsays makes sense, given the fact that gasoline exceeds $3 a gallon. He has votedto extend tax cuts that he once opposed. All of this is either called panderingor bridge-building, depending on your point of view."John's challenge, if he chooses to run, is to prove that he wants to be theleader of a party, not just a movement," says Lindsey Graham. "And that meansyou have to reach out to people who have been adversaries on particular issues."Or as Jon Stewart put it in when McCain appeared on "The Daily Show" in April:"You're not freaking out on us? . . . Are you going into crazy base world?"McCain's reply: "I'm afraid so."However much he courts the base, it will never be enough to allay the suspicionsof diehard opponents on the right, who loathe what the National Review's RichLowry calls McCain's "richly layered history of apostasy."On the other side of the ideological divide, Democrats are accusing McCain ofmoving too far to the right. In a series of recent press releases, theDemocratic National Committee has branded McCain's campaign the "Double TalkExpress," saying he has flip-flopped on taxes, abortion rights, ethanol and hissupport for Bush."The best-kept secret on the campaign trail is that McCain isn't talkingstraight to the American public  --  he's pandering to the right to get theRepublican nomination," says DNC spokeswoman Stacie Paxton. "Once people learnmore about John McCain, he is going to lose those crossover votes."Ask McCain who is the most likely Democratic nominee, and he unhesitantly pointsto Hillary Clinton. It appears to be his genuine belief but also a highlyconvenient one. No one scares Republicans as much as Hillary, and no one canmake a better case that he can slay the Hillary Dragon than McCain because ofhis appeal to independents and blue-collar Democrats.Chuck Yob is one of Michigan's two Republican national committeemen and acard-carrying conservative. He supported Bush in 2000 but has since become closeto McCain. His son John, a political consultant, is working for McCain'spolitical action committee. On McCain's recent weekend in Michigan, both theYobs accompanied him to each stop, offering a running commentary on the state'spolitical makeup."Michigan has not gone Republican in a presidential election since George Bush'sfather beat Michael Dukakis in 1988," says Chuck Yob. "John gives us a realchance to finally reverse that trend. If we want to keep the White House in 2008against Hillary Clinton, with all her money and name recognition, it's a prettyshort list that can beat her."Sen. Trent Lott, the Mississippi Republican, is a longtime McCain antagonist whohas become a close supporter. He predicts that McCain's problems withconservatives will fade as he makes the rounds, presses flesh and shows he'slistening to them. "I don't think John necessarily has to make the transitionfrom maverick," says Lott. "That's part of his persona and of his attraction,even to Republicans. He's willing to take on big issues, and he's dogged. Youmay not agree with him, but you have to admire him."Here's the other side: What choice do they have? Where are they going? Do theywant to win, or do they want purity?"IT'S SUNDAY NIGHT, and McCain is presiding over a small corner table at Joe'sStone Crab in Miami Beach. He's sipping a vodka on the rocks with an onion, andhe's ordered some of his favorite food, stone crabs, with one of his favoritecolleagues, Lindsey Graham ("my illegitimate son," he quips), and gossipingabout his favorite subject: politics. They're speculating about the prospects ofthe Republicans losing the House or the Senate or both, and conjuring upscenarios that might help turn things around.What about if Rumsfeld resigns in October? Graham asks.McCain just smiles. Secretary of Defense Donald Rumsfeld is the administrationofficial whom McCain holds most responsible for mistakes in the execution of theIraq war plan and aftermath, but McCain has stopped criticizing him in public."If I attack him, it hurts the president," he says.When you break it down to individual races, McCain says, he believes mostRepublicans will survive. But he bemoans the predicament of his close friend JoeLieberman, the Connecticut Democrat, who is under attack within his own partybecause of his support for the Iraq war and will eventually lose a hotlycontested primary to wealthy antiwar challenger Ned Lamont. He sees Lieberman'sdistress as another example of hardliners imposing ideological litmus tests onmoderate politicians.After dinner the waiter says the man at the next table has insisted on pickingup the tab. McCain politely declines. He goes over and explains to the man thatcampaign finance rules don't allow it.More than any other Republican senator, McCain has presented himself as leaderof a crusade to clean up Washington by imposing tougher rules on donations andlobbying. In 2002, after a seven-year struggle, he and Wisconsin Democrat RussFeingold rammed through a campaign finance reform law banning "soft money,"unlimited campaign contributions to political parties from corporations, tradeunions and law firms. The measure has probably done McCain the most damage withRepublican-dominated interest groups such as the National Rifle Association andthe antiabortion movement, which contend it has hurt their fundraisingoperations and infringed on their right of free speech. And it brings outMcCain's combative streak.Bradley Smith was chairman of the Federal Election Commission when theMcCain-Feingold bill became law. Smith was put on the FEC at the behest of Sen.Mitch McConnell (R-Ky.), an opponent of the bill, and he infuriated McCain, whobelieved Smith and his fellow commissioners were undermining the new law bydragging their feet on implementation.Smith recalls attending a committee hearing where McCain was present. "Ithought, Well, here he is. I'll go shake his hand, break the ice, show him Idon't have horns. I'd just had abdominal surgery a few days before, and I was ina wheelchair." Smith says he rolled up to McCain and held out his hand. McCaintook it instinctively before he realized whose it was. "He said, 'I'm not goingto talk to you, you're a bully and a coward,' and, frankly, he did not let mesay anything."Here's a guy who goes around giving commencement speeches saying we shouldtreat each other with civility and respect, but that's not how he treated me,"Smith says. "In my view, he doesn't always walk the walk."McCain says he was reacting to Smith's harsh treatment of two reform proponentsat a previous FEC hearing. "He had bullied both of them in a very, veryinappropriate fashion. I didn't yell at him, I didn't curse at him. I just said,'I don't want to shake hands with you'. It's my privilege."McCain's temper surfaced again a few weeks ago when he scolded Sen. Barack Obamaof Illinois, one of the Democratic Party's bright new stars, for purportedlyreneging on his commitment to a compromise on lobbying reform. "I would like toapologize to you for assuming that your private assurances to me . . . weresincere," McCain wrote Obama in a stinging letter released by McCain's office."Sorry for the confusion, but please be assured I won't make the same mistakeagain."Immigration reform is McCain's latest crusade and trickiest balancing act. Heand Sen. Edward Kennedy of Massachusetts have pushed through the Senate acompromise that allows for stricter enforcement of the law against illegalimmigration but also offers a mechanism under which illegals can turn themselvesin and qualify eventually for citizenship.Without McCain's tenacity, Kennedy says, the deal wouldn't have happened. "Whereyou really saw John's leadership was in the meetings we had early each morningwith four or five Democrats and five Republicans," Kennedy recalls. "He stayedfocused, and he was well-informed. Even the Democrats listened carefully tohim."For the first half of his Senate career, McCain was considered a showboat bymany of his colleagues. But Kennedy and admirers in both parties say thatMcCain's stature has grown and that he has emerged in recent years as one of thechief architects of bipartisan compromise. "John really is a throwback to a timewhen senators believed in the institution and made it work," Kennedy says. "Hewants to get things done."But some Republicans remain enraged by the immigration bill. House Republicanspassed their own version of immigration reform, one that focused strictly onenforcement, creating tougher penalties against illegals, with no prospect forcitizenship. On the hustings McCain has faced small but vocal protests inArizona, Florida and South Carolina and skepticism elsewhere. He says peopleoften put aside their anger after they listen for a while, and aides cite pollsindicating that more than 70 percent of Americans favor the Senate bill(ignoring other polls that suggest the opposite). But he concedes that animportant segment of the Republican base is furiously opposed.McCain and some of his fellow Republican senators are locked in negotiationswith House members to see if they can forge a compromise. While the talks areon, McCain is trying to stay on his best behavior and resist the urge to condemnopponents. He warns that voters will punish the GOP for inaction on perhaps themost important domestic issue facing Americans.Still, there are times when his passion boils over. "I get a little emotionalwhen I see this nativist  --  and that's the kindest word that I can use  --backlash" against illegal immigrants, he told a group of Republican activistsand potential campaign donors in Miami one night in July. "Yes, they came hereillegally; yes, they broke our laws; yes, they have to pay a penalty for doingthat. But the thought of rounding up 11 million people and sending them back tothe country they came from . . . is an insult to your intelligence and, frankly,a direct contradiction of what America's all about."He was just warming up. "I have bitten my tongue until it's bleeding and said:Look, we want to reach out; we want to talk to our friends on the right; we needto have a dialogue; we all agree that the problem has got to be solved." But, headded, "I'm not interested in calling some soldier in Iraq and telling him thatI'm deporting his parents. Under this House bill, if a young woman is illegallyin the United States of America, and she is raped, and she goes to a rapecounseling center, the people running the center are guilty of a felony. Is thatwhat America is supposed to be about?"I don't think so."AT A HEARING THIS MONTH, McCain and other members of the Senate Armed ServicesCommittee listen as two top military commanders describe the deterioratingsecurity situation in Baghdad. "The sectarian violence is probably as bad asI've seen it," says Gen. John P. Abizaid, commander of U.S. military operationsin the Middle East.McCain questions the U.S. strategy of shifting troops from one Iraqi hot spot toanother without ever defeating the insurgency. "What I worry about is we'replaying a game of whack-a-mole here," he says. "It's very disturbing."From the beginning, McCain has been an ardent supporter of the war but a vocalcritic of the way the Bush administration has conducted it. In hearing afterhearing, he has singled out Rumsfeld and some members of the joint chiefs ofstaff for not sending in enough troops, disbanding the Iraqi army and failing toanticipate the insurgency that arose in the aftermath of the 2003 invasion."I saw we were making serious mistakes in Iraq and tried with everything in meto get a policy change," he tells me. "We paid a heavy price for those mistakes.But saying that, I still believe the consequences of failure now would bedisastrous."In some ways, he has positioned himself to the right of the administration onthe war. In a landmark speech last November at the American EnterpriseInstitute, McCain called for a counterinsurgency strategy of creating "safehavens" that would require more American troops, more spending, more years ofoccupation and more casualties. "We must get Iraq right," he insisted at thetime.McCain says now he recognizes that with domestic public opinion so opposed tothe war, it isn't possible politically to send in more troops. "I don't think hecould sell that," he says of Bush.While the war threatens to do huge political damage to Republicans, McCain'sbackers are counting on his credibility as a military veteran and defense expertto see him through. Even some of the war's most vocal critics have confidence inhis savvy and feel. "John never would have taken us into Iraq the way Bush did,without listening to the commanders on the ground," says Bob Kerrey, formerDemocratic senator from Nebraska, who like McCain is a Vietnam veteran.Having survived a plane crash and a North Vietnamese prison camp, McCain thinksof himself as a man of a certain destiny. "There's no doubt about it. Not thatI'm a chosen person or anything like that. I just think that I'm the luckiestguy I know. I mean when I'm on a plane with Cindy and the weather gets bad, Isay, don't worry, I'm dying in bed. If I was gonna die in an airplane, it wouldhave happened long ago."Officially, McCain hasn't decided whether to run. He says he'll sit down withCindy and the children at Christmastime and discuss it. Unofficially, he'sready. Still he says, he's told his staff: "Look, if we run it's got to beenjoyable. I'm not gonna spend time being unhappy and tense and 'Oh, God' allthe time."Besides, he adds, speaking of his purported friends in the media, "If I tried todo anything differently, they'd kill me."There's one more stop on the Michigan run: the town of Iron Mountain, population8,154, in the Upper Peninsula. As McCain's plane pulls up on the small airstrip,Chuck Yob is briefing him. Upper Peninsula folks call themselves "Yoopers," asin U.P., and they're proud, rugged and individualistic. The area ispredominately Catholic, antiabortion and anti-gun control, but voters havetended to go Democratic in recent years because of pocketbook issues. McCain,Yob believes, can turn that around. They don't get many celebrities up here, Yobsays, and McCain should pull in a good crowd.Sure enough. More than 200 people are waiting as we pull up at the ChippewaClub, a Victorian-era house that used to be the home of a mining executive backin the days when the industry thrived here. They start whooping and hollering asMcCain emerges, and they don't let up for a good five minutes. Some are carryinghand-lettered signs with "McCain 2008!" and some are chanting his name. He'smoved and excited.He tells them he's grateful for their attendance, that he knows they could behome having dinner with their families. "This is really what America is allabout, and it's a great honor to be with you tonight. This is really the funpart of politics for me."It shows. As a purple dusk descends behind his head, he launches a stump speechwith a bit more edge when he gets to Iraq. "Look, we should acknowledge the factthat we made some serious mistakes in Iraq and Rumsfeld was responsible for them--  I'll give you a little straight talk  --  because we didn't have enoughtroops there. And the military guys knew it, and I knew it. But we still have towin, and we still have to prevail."After the speech, the crowd mobs him for handshakes and photographs. A Vietnamvet in biker's gear and a braid in his hair is sobbing. A World War II veteranrises out of a wheelchair to shake McCain's hand. They give him presents: anUpper Peninsula flag, a hunting knife and a pair of antlers from a white-taileddeer."America" is playing on the loudspeaker. McCain's handlers try to clear a pathto the car, but neither the candidate nor the crowd is ready to let go. It takes20 minutes for Weaver and Yob to drag him from the scene.Yob likes what he sees. "This guy can do what Ronald Reagan did for us. I'm justwaiting for the starting gate to open."McCain also relishes the moment. "That was really an amazing thing," he sayslater, as the plane takes off for another campaign stop, another hotel room,another fundraiser. "Did you see that old guy in his wheelchair? Oh, God, it waswonderful."Glenn Frankel is a staff writer for the Magazine. He will be fielding questionsand comments about this article Monday at noon at washingtonpost.com/liveonline.