McDonnell signs off on property rights referendumVirginians will decide at the polls in the fall whether the state Constitutionshould be amended to _blankmake it harder for government to seize property byeminent domain.Gov. Robert F. McDonnell (R) signed _blanklegislation last week calling for theNovember referendum.The measure was inspired by a 2005 U.S. Supreme Court case that upheld the rightof governments to take private property for economic development projects.The legislation passed the House and Senate last year. It came before the_blankGeneral Assembly again this year because to amend Virginia's Constitution,proposed changes must pass the General Assembly twice, with an election inbetween. It must then be approved by voters in a referendum.Virginia's proposed amendment was one of many to crop up across the countryafter the Supreme Court ruled in 2005 against a Connecticut woman whose housewas seized by the city of New London for an economic development project.The bill ran into bipartisan opposition in Senate committees this year afterconcerns were raised that it could prove too costly. Government auditors put thecost at $36 million a year, but some lawmakers think it will be much higher.Much of the opposition centered on related legislation, which defined certainterms in the proposed amendment, such as lost profits. Some Republicans andDemocrats said they feared that compensation would be too open-ended and thatsomeone whose store was taken for a road project, for example, could seek torecover lost profits for years.Because of those concerns, the Senate declined to act for weeks. But theproposed Constitutional amendment and related legislation ultimately passed.- Laura VozzellaMcDonnell signs bill giving Haynesworth $1 millionGov. Robert F. McDonnell (R) signed a bill giving Thomas Haynesworth,who spent27 years behind bars for rapes he did not commit, more than $1 million incompensation for wrongful imprisonment.http://www.washingtonpost.com/blogs/virginia-politics/post/general-assembly-votes-to-give-thomas-haynesworth-800000-for-wrongful-imprisonment/2012/03/05/gIQA72swsR_blog.html"ThomasHaynesworth's wrongful convictions and imprisonment were a tragedy and althoughthe commonwealth cannot return to him the years lost while serving time inprison, we can assist him as he rebuilds his life,'' McDonnell said in astatement Thursday. "Now, as Mr. Haynesworth begins the next chapter in hislife, it is morally right for Virginia to provide him with a means to financialsecurity and the ability to move on with his future. This restitution will helpensure that Mr. Haynesworth is able to build upon his freedom and return tosociety in a successful way."In December, Virginia's Court of Appeals declared Haynesworth an innocent man,clearing his name and acknowledging that he spent 27 years behind bars forcrimes he did not commit.Haynesworth, 47, was supported by Attorney General Ken Cuccinelli II (R) and apair of state prosecutors - all of whom concluded that he was mistakenlyidentified by a rape victim as he walked to a Richmond market for sweet potatoesand bread one February afternoon in 1984.Using technology that wasn't available in the 1980s, authorities tested semencollected in a January 1984 rape for which Haynesworth had been convicted. Itcleared him and pointed to a convicted rapist named Leon Davis."Although we wish that the amount of money could have been greater, we also knowthat no amount can make up for those 27 lost years,'' Cuccinelli said. "We praythat this will allow Thomas a new beginning to pursue the dreams he has beenwaiting almost three decades to fulfill."- Anita KumarMcDonnell signs off on property rights referendumVirginians will decide at the polls in the fall whether the state Constitutionshould be amended to _blankmake it harder for government to seize property byeminent domain.Gov. Robert F. McDonnell (R) signed _blanklegislation last week calling for theNovember referendum.The measure was inspired by a 2005 U.S. Supreme Court case that upheld the rightof governments to take private property for economic development projects.The legislation passed the House and Senate last year. It came before the_blankGeneral Assembly again this year because to amend Virginia's Constitution,proposed changes must pass the General Assembly twice, with an election inbetween. It must then be approved by voters in a referendum.Virginia's proposed amendment was one of many to crop up across the countryafter the Supreme Court ruled in 2005 against a Connecticut woman whose housewas seized by the city of New London for an economic development project.The bill ran into bipartisan opposition in Senate committees this year afterconcerns were raised that it could prove too costly. Government auditors put thecost at $36 million a year, but some lawmakers think it will be much higher.Much of the opposition centered on related legislation, which defined certainterms in the proposed amendment, such as lost profits. Some Republicans andDemocrats said they feared that compensation would be too open-ended and thatsomeone whose store was taken for a road project, for example, could seek torecover lost profits for years.Because of those concerns, the Senate declined to act for weeks. But theproposed Constitutional amendment and related legislation ultimately passed.- Laura VozzellaMcDonnell signs bill giving Haynesworth $1 millionGov. Robert F. McDonnell (R) signed a bill giving Thomas Haynesworth,who spent27 years behind bars for rapes he did not commit, more than $1 million incompensation for wrongful imprisonment.http://www.washingtonpost.com/blogs/virginia-politics/post/general-assembly-votes-to-give-thomas-haynesworth-800000-for-wrongful-imprisonment/2012/03/05/gIQA72swsR_blog.html"ThomasHaynesworth's wrongful convictions and imprisonment were a tragedy and althoughthe commonwealth cannot return to him the years lost while serving time inprison, we can assist him as he rebuilds his life,'' McDonnell said in astatement Thursday. "Now, as Mr. Haynesworth begins the next chapter in hislife, it is morally right for Virginia to provide him with a means to financialsecurity and the ability to move on with his future. This restitution will helpensure that Mr. Haynesworth is able to build upon his freedom and return tosociety in a successful way."In December, Virginia's Court of Appeals declared Haynesworth an innocent man,clearing his name and acknowledging that he spent 27 years behind bars forcrimes he did not commit.Haynesworth, 47, was supported by Attorney General Ken Cuccinelli II (R) and apair of state prosecutors - all of whom concluded that he was mistakenlyidentified by a rape victim as he walked to a Richmond market for sweet potatoesand bread one February afternoon in 1984.Using technology that wasn't available in the 1980s, authorities tested semencollected in a January 1984 rape for which Haynesworth had been convicted. Itcleared him and pointed to a convicted rapist named Leon Davis."Although we wish that the amount of money could have been greater, we also knowthat no amount can make up for those 27 lost years,'' Cuccinelli said. "We praythat this will allow Thomas a new beginning to pursue the dreams he has beenwaiting almost three decades to fulfill."- Anita Kumar