Below is an excerpt from "On Faith," a daily online religion section sponsoredby The Washington Post and Newsweek. Each week, Jon Meacham and Sally Quinnengage figures from the world of faith in a conversation about an aspect ofreligion. This week, On Faith asked: Should Pope Benedict XVI be heldresponsible for the escalating scandals over clerical sexual abuse in Europe?Should he be investigated for cases of abuse that occurred under his watch asarchbishop of Munich or as the Vatican's chief doctrinal enforcer? Should thepope resign?Anti-Catholic bias: The question of whether Pope Benedict XVI should resign is,frankly, silly, because it assumes guilt where none has been proven or evencredibly asserted. . . . The charge that Ratzinger, when archbishop of Munich,knowingly reassigned a dangerous predator to pastoral ministry has been flatlydenied by both the archdiocese and the Vatican. Anyone who knows the elementaryfacts of the history of the Holy See's handling of these cases over the lastdecade knows that Ratzinger was at the forefront of efforts to bring abusers tobook, swiftly and decisively, and his recent letter to the Catholic Church inIreland demonstrates beyond cavil that he is determined to continue thoseefforts, wherever they lead.George Weigel, Catholic theologian and authorOrdination does not equal immunity from prosecution: Of course he should be heldaccountable. He approved moving Cardinal Bernard Law to the Vatican to keep himfrom having to answer questions under oath. . . .Child abuse is a crime. Covering up a crime is also a crime. Ordination and aposition in the Roman Catholic hierarchy does not make one immune to theconsequences of criminal behavior.John Shelby Spong, former bishop, Episcopal Diocese of NewarkEveryday believers vs. institutional scandal: The pope ought to act himself andact fast to end this by acknowledging the mistakes made and stepping away fromhis post. When he does, the relief for victims, their loved ones and the mostlyignored, and almost completely unaffected everyday Catholics living joyfullytoday will breathe easily and move on with their lives and their faith, as theyshould.Mark Tauber, senior vice president, HarperCollins PublishersTime for an apology and amends: If the pope recognizes that mistakes were made,he should make apologies and amends. If he recognizes that he was the one whomade the mistakes, he should similarly clear the air and, using his best Latin,cry "mea culpa." People are far more willing to forgive when honest admissionsof culpability are made than when one comes clean only after a coverup has beenexposed to the light of day.Max Carter,  director, Friends Center, Guilford CollegeHeaven is the presence of Christ: No, Pope Ratzinger should not resign. Heshould remain in charge of the whole rotten edifice -- the whole profiteering,woman-fearing, guilt-gorging, truth-hating, child-raping institution -- while ittumbles, amid a stench of incense and a rain of tourist-kitsch sacred hearts andpreposterously crowned virgins, about his ears.Richard Dawkins,  British evolutionary biologist, authorDo we expect the pope to do a perp walk? From my limited vantage point, itappears this pope is trying to work through a problem that was not adequatelyaddressed by previous regimes. In as large an organization as the Roman CatholicChurch, with its dense network of power relationships, I can't imagine that's aneasy task. I'm generally disinclined to tell other ecclesiastical bodies how tomanage their internal affairs, but if I weren't so polite and reticent, I stillwouldn't tell the pope to resign.Jason Poling, founding pastor, New Hope Community ChurchBenedict should stay and clean house: Should Catholics be angry about theongoing revelations of clergy sexual abuse? Absolutely. Do victims deserve afull accounting of how those cases were handled? Yes again. Should Benedictresign? No. He should do what a good father would do: root out the filth in hishouse, acknowledge the church's past failings frankly and let his flock know, inboth word and action, that he shares their fury at these unspeakable crimes andtheir resolve that they never be repeated.Colleen Carroll Campbell, columnist, tv/radio show host for Eternal WorldTelevision NetworkA resignation would be mind-boggling but soul-healing: So though the thought ofthe pope resigning still boggles my mind, what a powerful statement it would beto all Catholics and people everywhere! Perhaps the Catholic Church would notcrumble but instead emerge as a stronger tradition. Embattled yes, but embattledin the service of being a force for good, and no longer for enabling criminalbehavior.Donna Freitas, assistant professor of religion, Boston University