Americans say they want to be represented by "real people" and not by"professional politicians." But with their votes they reward professionalism anddrain the reality from politics. Real people haven't spent their lives plottinga political career, and therefore real people may have said things from time totime that an aspiring politician would not. Departures from the official scriptare called gaffes. This election year, the script has been more important thanever. Despite the Iraq war, despite the sinking economy, despite the price ofgasoline, we have frittered away our politics in a round robin of gaffes, mockindignation and demands for apology.The surest way to stumble into a gaffe is to tell a joke. Jokes are risky; theyare a game of percentages. That is why jokes are best left to professionaljokesters. Certainly they are too dangerous for politicians to play with. Anyjoke that doesn't offend at least a few people is unlikely to be funny. You haveto hope that many more will be amused than are offended. You have to come asclose as you can to the line of justifiable, widespread offense without crossingit. This is why I never found George Carlin, who died last month, terriblyfunny: He walked up to the line and simply crossed it. Where is the art in that?The professional politician, by contrast, lives to avoid giving offense. Thisisn't easy. In today's Culture of Umbrage, taking offense is a major sport.Everybody is on hair-trigger alert. And once a voter is offended, he or she isprobably lost. On the other hand, keeping the voters amused is difficult andprobably not worth the trouble. A voter who is amused may vote against youanyway or may seize an opportunity to take offense and turn against youtomorrow.This year a professional jokester, Al Franken (D), is challenging a professionalpolitician, incumbent Norm Coleman (R), for a Senate seat in Minnesota. Notevery joke Franken wrote or told over a third of a century in the joke businesswas hilarious, okay? Minnesota voters will have to decide whether their dislikeof professional politicians trumps their enjoyment in taking umbrage, or viceversa. Coleman is a man of no interest, a run-of-the-mill professionalpolitician who started out as a standard issue long-haired student rebel leaderon Long Island in the 1960s and surfed the zeitgeist until now. Today he is astandard-issue pro-war tax-cut Republican. Franken, by contrast, needs nointroduction and from Day One would be one of the most interesting people in theSenate. "Interesting," of course, isn't the most important quality in a senator."Honest," "smart" and (for my taste) "liberal" are more important. But"interesting" would be nice.Franken's problem is that he spent three decades as a professional comedianbefore turning to politics and thus has a large inventory of potential gaffematerial to explain away: a 1995 magazine article describing Franken asproposing rude, unfunny jokes about rape at a Saturday Night Live staff meeting;a 2000 article in Playboy fantasizing about three-way sex with robots (orsomething); an ungallant crack about women in Afghanistan (a place Franken hasvisited repeatedly with the USO); and so on. Take the SNL staff meeting: None ofFranken's rude fantasies made it onto the air, and there is no evidence that heespecially wanted them to. He was thinking out loud, an activity vital toprofessional comics and fatal to professional politicians. The only way ameeting to plan a comedy show can possibly work is if everybody feels free tosay absolutely anything. If comedy writers are thinking "I'd better not say thatbecause it may not be funny and in 13 years I may decide to run for the Senate,"we will end up with fewer good jokes on TV and even fewer interesting people inthe Senate.Franken (a slight but friendly acquaintance of mine) is in a quandary. He can'tstop his campaign to defend every joke he's ever written that someone now findsoffensive, or pretends to. Trying to explain a joke is notoriously pointlessanyway. But Franken also can't let his opponent create the impression that he issome kind of sexist monster, rather than the long-married, deeply uxoriousfamily man that he is, with the progressive views on abortion choice and relatedissues that you would expect from a Democratic liberal. If the voters ofMinnesota would rather be represented by a hack like Norm Coleman than laugh offa few jokes that didn't work, then they should stop complaining about beingstuck with professional politicians. And the real joke will be on them.Michael Kinsley is a columnist for Time magazine and regular contributor towashingtonpost.com.