One of the enduring strategies for workers is the doctrine of no surprises: Makesure the boss knows what's coming, whether it's good news or bad, before shehears it via the office grapevine.Would that employers followed the same principle when talking about personnelmatters. Workers often can be caught off guard by workplace queries fromsuperiors and unprepared to respond intelligently. Being able to think quicklyand answer appropriately is a wonderful asset at the office, but sometimesemployers' questions are inappropriate, perhaps even illegal.Consider a couple of recent questions from the workplace:Q: I am age 60 and have never discussed any plans for retirement with myemployer.Recently, while in a group of four co-workers, my immediate supervisor asked mewhen I was going to retire and told me he had to know. I responded vaguely.A couple of weeks later, in a phone conversation, the immediate supervisormentioned my retiring early and told me he had plans for me to show a newemployee around prior to my leaving. I again was noncommittal about the exacttiming of my retirement.Does he have the right to suggest that I retire early? What advice can you giveme about handling retirement questions from him? I honestly don't know when Iwant to retire. He has not offered me a monetary incentive to retire before age65.A: The worker, a salesman for a manufacturing firm, said that when his bossfirst asked the retirement question he finessed his answer, joking, "It dependson what the buyout is." He also said that he might retire in a couple years butwasn't sure.But the salesman said that when the boss called a couple weeks later, he "veryspecifically mentioned me being gone in 1 1/2 years.""I didn't let my emotions get away, but I think this guy thinks he's going tobuffalo me into quitting at 62. I think they have a strategy that they can goout and get someone at half my salary," the salesman said."I just always figured retirement was someone's personal choice."In this case, the employee is right.For the most part there is no mandatory retirement age in the United States,although federal law does make some exceptions, such as allowing corporations toset 65 as the age that key decision-making executives have to retire andprohibiting commercial airline pilots from flying after 60.Various courts have ruled that it is not illegal for employers to ask workersabout their retirement plans. But Raymond Fay, a D.C. lawyer who has representedworkers and employers in age-discrimination cases, said that if a worker hasresponded that he has no immediate plans to quit and the employer repeatedlycontinues to inquire about his retirement plans, the questions then have crossedthe line into illegal age-discrimination harassment.Both Fay and Laurie McCann, a lawyer for the AARP Foundation who representsseniors who allege that they have been discriminated against, said the salesman,assuming he indeed has not made definitive retirement plans, needs to tell hissuperior exactly that."He ought to set the record straight in as diplomatic a way as possible," Faysaid. "He needs to disabuse his superior of the notion that he's going toleave."McCann added: "I would try to put closure to this. If [the worker] says 'I don'tknow,' that gives the employer a chance to ask again. He needs to make apoint-blank statement: 'I've thought about it, and I'm not planning onretirement.' "Then, McCann said, the worker ought to start keeping a journal of the variousretirement conversations, so that if the employer persists in making repeatedinquiries, he'll have a record of it in case the questions cross the line intoharassment."He needs to make a case that this is not on the up and up," McCann said.Q: Can a potential employer during an interview ask a job applicant how often heis sick? I had this question asked once during an interview with a federalgovernment agency.A: Those familiar with the federal hiring process said it would be highlyunusual for such a question to be asked.Victor M. Glasberg, a lawyer in Alexandria who represents workers in employmentdisputes, was blunter, saying: "It's at best imprudent, at worst illegal."An employer has an absolute right to know that an employee can do the work,"Glasberg said. "But [the question] seems to be an illegal way to go about it."He said Equal Employment Opportunity Commission guidelines state that it ispermissible for employers to ask prospective workers if they can "do this jobwith or without reasonable accommodation," to account for any disabilities theymight have. "But you don't ask about the medical stuff," Glasberg said, "but[rather] the capacity to do the work."Once someone has been offered a job, Glasberg said, they can be required to takea pre-employment medical exam, but any medical abnormalities found in the examcan't be the basis for not employing the person unless "it can be shown on themerits why someone can't do the job" he has already been offered. "There has tobe a very strong reason to show why someone shouldn't be hired."Glasberg said that rather than asking how often someone has been sick, anemployer might preferably ask a prospective worker, "Is there any reason tobelieve you won't be here to work?" That, he said, might elicit informationabout past substantial illnesses or that a worker is pregnant or needs to travelout of town occasionally to care for an elderly parent."Common sense and sensitivity are giant steps toward solving 90 percent of legalproblems," Glasberg said. "Thoughtlessness and insensitivity account for a wholelot more workplace disputes than outright malice."QUESTIONS ABOUT THE WORKPLACE?Got a tough workplace question? Can't figure out how to deal with thatunpleasant co-worker or cranky boss? Want to be more effective on the job andclimb the corporate ladder? Having a tough time balancing workplace demands withany semblance of family life?We'll take your questions, comments and concerns to workplace and managementexperts. We can't answer e-mails and letters personally, but we'll include manyof the issues you raise in upcoming columns.We'll also pose our own questions occasionally and publish the responses. Thecurrent question: What's the most unreasonable request your boss has ever madeto you?Write to Kenneth Bredemeier at The Washington Post, 4020 University Dr., Suite220, Fairfax, Va. 22030. Or send e-mail to bredemeier@washpost.com. Pleaseinclude your name, address and telephone number, although we won't publish yourname in connection with workplace disputes without your permission.Join Kenneth Bredemeier today at 11 a.m. at washingtonpost.com/liveonline for adiscussion of workplace issues and problems.