In each ad, the servants are depicted as animals.In one, a woman in the back seat of a car tugs on a harness attached to a bit inher Indian driver's mouth. In another, an Ethiopian maid kneels inside adoghouse in front of a bowl full of bones as her employer holds a leash aroundher neck.The public service campaign recently launched in Saudi Arabia highlights theabuse of foreign domestic workers and urges their employers to treat them morehumanely.The man behind the television announcements and newspaper inserts says that itis time for Saudis to stop ignoring the issue and that their faith should compelthem to act."We sometimes deal with our servants as if they were not human and have nofeelings," said advertising executive Kaswara al-Khatib, who came up with theidea for the campaign after noticing how badly some Saudis treat domesticworkers and foreign laborers in general. "There is rampant abuse in the kingdom.Enough denial."Khatib said the slogan, "Have mercy so that you shall be shown mercy," is meantto remind Saudis that "good manners are an integral part of being a goodMuslim.""What I'm trying to point out is that there's an inherent contradiction in beinga devout Muslim, praying five times a day and mistreating your servants," hesaid.Khatib has been hailed as a hero as well as accused of anti-Saudi bias and oftarnishing the country's image.A Facebook group supporting the campaign has attracted nearly 3,000 members, andseveral newspapers and television channels have asked to use it since the adsfirst appeared on the popular Saudi-owned MBC satellite channels and in al-Hayatnewspaper last month.But writer Trad al-Asmari slammed the "mercy campaign" as inaccurate. Problemsof mistreatment exist in many countries, Asmari wrote in al-Jazeera newspaper,but the campaign singles out "all Saudis as ugly and merciless."In an editorial in al-Watan newspaper, Hassan al-Assiri wrote that "the campaignposes a very important question.""Is it true that Saudis actually have no mercy? Have studies and polls . . .proven that the only way to treat the problem is by performing surgery on ourconsciences?" he asked.Saudi Arabia has about 8 million foreign laborers, mainly from the Philippines,Indonesia, Sri Lanka and the Indian subcontinent. About a quarter of them aredomestic servants. Many households in this country of 28 million have severalservants, including drivers for women, who are not allowed behind the wheel inthe kingdom.With advances in press freedoms since King Abdullah took the throne in 2005,newspapers have routinely published articles about domestic servants who havebeen beaten, raped and sometimes killed. Last year, Saudi police rescued anabused Sri Lankan maid after she contacted a newspaper. She had been confinedand had not been paid for seven years. Newspapers reported in May that anIndonesian maid who had been tortured was found in an empty lot in Mecca,gagged, bound and blindfolded. Her employer was later arrested.A Human Rights Watch report in July harshly criticized the mistreatment ofdomestic workers, who are not protected under labor laws. The report said theworkers often endure "non-payment of salaries, forced confinement, fooddeprivation, excessive workload, and instances of severe psychological,physical, and sexual abuse." The organization said embassies and other foreignmissions receive thousands of complaints from domestic workers each year.A Filipino diplomat, who spoke on the condition of anonymity because of thesensitivity of the subject, said an average of one runaway maid a day walks into his consulate. Most complain that they haven't been paid, he said, but othersreport confinement and a lack of food. Some have endured physical abuse and evenrape, he said.One maid from the Philippines escaped to the consulate a year and a half agoafter she was raped by a relative of her employer, she said. Accompanied by aFilipino diplomat, she reported the rape, and her employer's nephew wassentenced to eight months in jail and 200 lashes after he confessed, she said.Now she is waiting for the courts to grant her $13,000 in compensation for lostincome and emotional distress."I will never leave the Philippines to work overseas again," said the woman, whoserves as a liaison between case workers and other domestic workers at theshelter.Jowhara Ahmad, 30, an Indonesian maid featured in one of the ads, came to SaudiArabia on a visa to perform the hajj pilgrimage when she was 17. Like tens ofthousands of other migrant workers, she remained in Saudi Arabia illegally tolook for work. She has spent 13 years in Saudi Arabia sending home almost all ofher monthly salary of $300 to put her son and younger brothers through school,support her parents and build a home for herself there.For the past six years, she has been working for a family with which she'scontent, she said. But over the years, several employers did not pay her, andshe ran away from one household when she feared she would be raped by heremployer's teenage son.Khatib said that despite the criticism, the response has been mostly positive."Our society is becoming more mature and inward-looking," he said. "I would nothave been able to launch this campaign six years ago."To read more of these features, go to the Worldview page at www.washingtonpost.com/worldview.