You know how you can get all wrapped up in a good summer novel and have toremind yourself where you are when you put it down?Well, America has made it pretty hard this past week to remind myself that we donot, in fact, live in the brutal 18th-century society I'm reading about, whererape is unacknowledged and young women are treated as disposable.Let's take a look at Montana last week, where a former teacher was sentenced tojust 30 days in jail after admitting to raping a 14-year-old student, who laterkilled herself.The Yellowstone County judge said the girl was "older than her chronologicalage" and "as much in control of the situation" as the teacher, who was 49 at thetime of the ongoing rapes.Later in the week, after he was slammed across the country, Montana DistrictJudge G. Todd Baugh issued a statement apologizing for his comments. That didn'tchange the ridiculous sentence.But that's Montana, you think. The judge wears a bolo tie, what can you expect?Okay, so let's go to D.C., our enlightened nation's capital.Here in Washington, defense attorneys in a military hearing have made theirpoint loud and clear that if you report a sexual assault, they will make yourlife hell.A U.S. Naval Academy midshipman who says she was raped by three fellow studentslast year finally had her case acknowledged by the academy. And she was ravagedby the attorneys of the defendants.They asked her whether she was wearing a bra or panties that night. They askedher to describe how wide she opens her mouth during oral sex. They asked her ifshe "felt like a ho" the next morning.What? An attorney said "ho" in a hearing?It sounded like a witch trial. But her interrogation, which ended Sunday, cameat an Article 32 hearing, which is the military equivalent of a grand juryhearing to determine whether the case would go to trial, or in this case, amilitary court-martial.The woman said she went to an off-campus "toga and yoga" party at the footballhouse last spring. She drank way too much and blacked out. The next morning, herback was sore and she didn't remember much. She didn't report anything."She learned from friends and social media that three football players wereclaiming to have had sexual intercourse with her while she was incapacitated,"her attorney, Susan Burke, said in a statement when I wrote about the case inJune.It was her fellow classmates, who were horrified by the online bragging of thethree football players, who reported the case.Reluctantly, the woman told academy officials what she could remember. What didthe academy do? They punished the 21-year-old for drinking.She and her attorney began to wonder if the academy would ever investigate theplayers.Now, the defense attorneys are trying to make her regret that the case ever gotthis far.The questions have been invasive, irrelevant and demeaning.Legal experts say they would never be able to go that far - the sexual-positionquestions, the cross-examination about her underpants - in a civilian trial.Perhaps this cultural difference explains a recent Pentagon report, which statedthat while as many as 26,000 service members said they were the targets ofunwanted sexual contact last year, only 3,374 incidents of sexual assault werereported.Those who believe women should be kept out of the military will point to thereport and the Naval Academy case as proof. But hold your horses there, InternetRousseaus.The Pentagon report also said that the majority - 53 percent - of the people whosaid they were assaulted were men. And they were assaulted by other men.Take the case of Greg Jeloudov, who told Newsweek that two weeks after he joinedthe military in 2009, he was gang-raped in the barracks by men who said theywere showing him who was in charge."It must have been your fault. You must have provoked them," is what he saidcommanders told him.Imagine the grilling he would have faced if they took his report seriously."Did you ever walk out of the showers with your shirt off?" "Did you ever talkabout sex with your bunkmates?" "Did you ever watch porn with other men?"Nope, at least 10,000 men wouldn't go there, wouldn't report a sexual assault.The Naval Academy case underscores the reasons behind the rising concern overthe way the military handles sexual assault cases.But this isn't about women in the military. It isn't about the hidden sexualassault of men in the military. Nor is it about a backward judge in YellowstoneCounty.It's about America still not understanding the difference between consensual sexand rape.The woman at the Naval Academy is not pretending to be a prude. She describedfor attorneys times in the past when she did want to have sex and consented toit. But the stuff those football players bragged about online - she didn't evenremember it. At that point, it's rape.Consensual sex happens between two adults who both want it.Rape is about violence, domination and power.It shouldn't be that hard.And yet, it still is. Just like in the 18th century.dvorakp@washpost.comFor previous columns, go to washingtonpost.com/dvorak.