Someone, somewhere in cyberspace, doesn't like Edward Donato, a Florida publicrelations man. For nearly nine months, in dozens of obscenity-laden postings onan Internet message board, Donato's anonymous antagonist has let his or herfeelings be known unambiguously, usually to Donato's dismay and distress."Your [sic] going to die soon," reads a typical posting, mentioning Donato byname. Sometimes the threats are aimed at him, sometimes at his teenage son.They've falsely accused Donato of being a child molester, a drug abuser, apromiscuous homosexual. His street address, Social Security number and elderlyfather's name have been posted. His tormentor occasionally posts under Donato'sson's name, or under that of his deceased mother.Donato has pleaded with the operator of the board to scrub the messages andbanish the offending party. But he's made halting progress, and he thinks heknows why: The message board is operated by the American Civil Liberties Union,an organization that has long championed the First Amendment's guarantee of freespeech.Donato believes the ACLU has protected a miscreant, partly out of indifference,but primarily because the organization is reluctant to put itself in the ironic-- and perhaps embarrassing -- position of curtailing someone's free speechrights on its own Web site. "I don't believe that death threats should beprotected speech," he says. "I've written to [ACLU officials] and said that thisperson is doing the equivalent of yelling 'fire' in a crowded theater."ACLU officials acknowledge that some of the messages Donato has complained aboutviolated the Web site's policies. At the same time, however, the organization issensitive about being placed in the hypocritical role of censor of theInternet's unbridled give-and-take."It's not our judgment to decide what's harassment," says Gabe Rottman, an ACLUspokesman in Washington. "There's a legal definition for that, and a legalrecourse for it. . . . This [message board] is supposed to be our gift to freespeech on the Internet. Speech that might be considered personally offensivemight get pulled on other boards, but not ours."Indeed, companies and organizations that maintain message boards and chat rooms,such as America Online and washingtonpost.com, generally prohibit the posting ofvulgarities, threats and "hate speech," admittedly a loosely defined class ofspeech.AOL, for instance, practices "zero tolerance" toward hate messages and physicalthreats made in its chat rooms and on its message boards, and removes suchmessages "promptly after we are notified," says spokesman Nicholas Graham.Graham defined hate speech as language that degrades another based on "age,disability, ethnicity, gender, race, religion or sexual orientation."The ACLU also has a lengthy series of posting guidelines, but it makes nospecific provision for vulgar or threatening messages. Its two main prohibitionsare against "spamming" -- sending identical messages, usually ads, to allmembers of a group -- and posting personal information about another member"which they have not made public online."It also explicitly encourages more active and vigorous exchanges than arepermissible elsewhere. "This is a free speech forum," reads its message boardpolicy. "It is not without rules and regulations or supervision, but it isconsiderably less regulated than most message boards. If you find thatdisturbing you may want to find a more regulated environment."Donato's exasperation with the messages posted about him and his family havebeen poured into a long-running campaign. For months, he has peppered the Website's administrators with complaints, attaching a list of specific postings. Hehas written and called ACLU officials in New York, Florida and Washington,including ACLU President Nadine Strossen. He has contacted law enforcementofficials and turned the material over to an attorney.And still the messages keep coming."You are one dead [expletive]," read a note posted on Tuesday. It was signed"Your son," followed by Donato's son's full name. In June, someone used Donato'sson's name to send this message: "I think you gave me aids daddy."Although the ACLU did remove some posts last December saying they revealedpersonal details, others were left untouched for months. A threat to decapitateDonato's son, for example, came down two months after Donato alerted the ACLU toit. As for other messages, the ACLU told Donato that it wouldn't act againstmany of them because they didn't reveal personal information about Donato, otherthan his name. "We're the ACLU," says Phil Gutis, the organization's director oflegislative communications, "We're not in the business of yanking posts."ACLU officials won't say so publicly, but there is concern that Donato is notall that he seems. In an e-mail correspondence with Donato, an ACLU employee whohas since left the organization, said ACLU officials were uneasy about takingaction because "they are worried you are trying to cause trouble. . . . Theconcern is that you are doing this for fun so that you can go around braggingthat you got the ACLU to abridge the free speech rights of someone on theinternet."Donato replied that he "resents" the notion that he would make up threatsagainst himself and his family, and repeatedly denied in interviews that he didso. ACLU officials could offer no evidence that Donato himself is posting themessages.But Donato does have an idea about who might be. For some time, he said, hemaintained an e-mail correspondence with a California woman he met online. Thetwo became friendly and made arrangements to meet. But before that happened,Donato discovered that the woman had misrepresented certain facts about herself,and he broke off the relationship. He thinks the woman, or a male friend ofhers, is now paying him back, using personal information he had once shared withher.Yesterday, after several conversations with a Washington Post reporter, ACLUofficials said all of the messages Donato found objectionable have been removed,with the exception of several that did not identify him. "He complained and wedealt with it," says Gutis.Except Donato says that isn't so. Clicking on his computer, he was easily ableto find offensive postings identifying him by name from June and even lastDecember, when his "nightmare" began. "When I saw them, I called, e-mailed,cried, complained, yelled, threatened and begged the ACLU to do something," hesays. "They did nothing."