THIS JUST IN . . .* We hear that White House staffers must don powerful sunglasses to avoidretinal damage from the blinding six-carat diamond ring being sported by DeliaCohen, deputy director of the White House correspondence office. On Sunday, at acandlelit restaurant beside a canal in Venice, the 36-year-old Cohen acceptedDemocratic media guru Tony Podesta's marriage proposal. Podesta, 56, is Chief ofStaff John Podesta's big brother.* A global calamity was narrowly averted yesterday when the Fox News politicalteam, including Brit Hume, Tony Snow, Mara Liasson and Morton Kondracke, fendedoff a falling camera light during a publicity shoot at the National PostalMuseum. "Carl Cameron yelled, 'Look out! Look out! Look out!' and we got out ofharm's way," a shaken Snow told us.* The Irish American Democrats and President Clinton honored fundraiser Terry"Mack" McAuliffe Wednesday night, selling $ 1,000 full-page ads for a slickcommemorative program. Our favorite, placed by Philadelphia cybermogul MarkWalsh and wife Polly Vail, pleaded: "Mack: Lose our phone number, PLEASE!!!" Itturns out that McAuliffe met Walsh a few months ago, grabbed him by the ankles,turned him upside down, and so far has shaken loose more than $ 250,000.* The baby grand piano on which Tori Amos began her career as a 13-year-oldlounge singer at Mr. Smith's bar in Georgetown is for sale on Yahoo's onlineauction site until June 26. Half the proceeds will go to the Washington-basedRape Abuse & Incest National Network, which Amos, a sexual-assault survivor,co-founded.* Former Gore campaign chairman Tony Coelho, who resigned last week for healthreasons, is sicker than we thought. "There is a cyst on my lower left lobe in mybrain," Coelho told Bloomberg's Paul Alexander Wednesday night. "Obviously, wedon't know now if it is cancerous."The Greenroom GourmetWhich Sunday panel show has the best greenroom cuisine? To answer this burningquestion--and as a service to the pundits and policymakers attending thisSunday's orgy of gab and grub--we dispatched the Source's resident food critic,Dana Milbank, to accompany Commerce Secretary Bill Daley, Vice President Gore'snew campaign chairman, as he trekked last weekend from show to show. Milbank'sreport:* Fox News: "There was fresh-squeezed OJ, apple turnover and blueberry cake,among other offerings," he writes. "I ate those three; Secretary Daley hadcoffee."* ABC News: "By far the best spread of the morning: lox with bagels, creamcheese, tomato, capers, scrambled eggs, frosted doughnuts, mixed nuts, coffeeand a full selection of teas, juices and Perrier. Bill Bennett and GeorgeStephanopoulos were munching when we entered. 'Where's the bacon?' Daley said asa joke, but immediately a waiter in black tie appeared with bacon and sausages,and then potatoes. An ABC producer pointed out that the chef also prepares alow-fat version of eggs, sans butter. There was Tabasco on the table, forLouisiana native Cokie Roberts."* CBS News: "A producer grumbled about ABC's big spread and big budgets, but CBScomes in second--a distant second, to be sure. There were fruit kabobs, bagels,pistachio biscotti and pine nut cookies (which stuck together). 'Very goodbiscotti. I commend the biscotti,' Gloria Borger said."* CNN: "Only two black plastic trays (CBS's were wicker). On one was a skimpypile of bagels and chocolate danish with little packages of cream cheese. Theother contained three sandwiches, each cut in half, with meat that looked oldand stale. With his wife across town enjoying Tabasco and eggs at ABC, SteveRoberts seemed delighted to find a couple of bottles of Crystal Geyser water.'Wow, they've got the good stuff today!' he said. There was also a nifty machinethat dispensed various coffees, hot water and hot chocolate."* NBC News: "The food was positively lousy in the cramped, cold greenroom: apile of dried-out-looking fruit and a few pastries."The Lockhart Longue* White House press secretary Joe Lockhart was out of town and thus unable tostop President Clinton from visiting the briefing room yesterday morning to showoff this very old photograph of a comatose-looking Lockhart on a chaise longue.Propping the presidentially inscribed photo on the lectern, Clinton gloated: "Ithink I'll put it right here. This is the Joe Lockhart memorial podium. I loveit. He'll never forgive me for showing it." Lockhart was unavailable forcomment, but the humiliated spinmeister's spokeswoman told us he is seriouslyconsidering not returning to Washington.Got a hot tip or a nagging question? Dish with Lloyd Grove today at 11 a.m. EDTat http://washingtonpost.com/liveonline