In January 2002, prominent Catholics from around the world gathered in Rome tocelebrate the Spanish priest who founded one of the church's most conservativeand devout groups, Opus Dei.The event drew cardinals, bishops and other powerful Vatican officials. Andamong those invited to speak was a future presidential candidate: Rick Santorum,http://www.washingtonpost.com/national/on-faith/rick-santorum-courts-conservative-christians-as-evangelicals-embrace-him/2012/03/19/gIQAOhaFMS_story.html-URL-whose faith had become soessential to http://www.washingtonpost.com/blogs/election-2012/post/does-rick-santorum-want-religion-in-government-or-government-out-of-religion/2012/02/27/gIQAH14VeR_blog.html-URL-his politics that onfederal documents he listed the trip, paid for by an Opus Dei foundation, aspart of his official duties as a U.S. senator from Pennsylvania.In a speech at the gathering, Santorum embraced the ideas of Opus Dei founderJosemaria Escriva, who had urged ordinary Catholics to bring an almost priestlydevotion to Catholic principles in every realm of life and work.During Senate debates about abortion, Santorum told the audience in Rome, hehears Escriva telling him that "it is not true that there is opposition betweenbeing a good Catholic and serving civil society faithfully." In his public fightto uphold "absolute truths," Santorum said, "blessed Josemaria guides my way."" 'As long as you are making straight for your goal, head and heart intoxicatedwith God, why worry . . .â[#x20ac][#x160]?' " Santorum said, quoting Escriva,according to a transcript of the speech.Within the story of how Santorum grew up and decided to run for president, thereis the story of a boy who grew up to become ever more devoutly Catholic, ajourney all the more relevant as Santorum has vigorously asserted a role forreligious conviction in the realm of governance.On Tuesday, Santorum will face http://www.washingtonpost.com/blogs/the-fix/post/mitt-romney-rick-santorum-in-tight-race-in-illinoiss-primary-poll-shows/2012/03/11/gIQA1PiC5R_blog.html-URL-a showdown with Mitt Romney inthe Illinois Republican primary, which comes after http://www.washingtonpost.com/politics/santorum-wins-in-mississippi-alabama/2012/03/13/gIQATN5SBS_story.html-URL-significant wins in Alabama and Mississippi. In his victory speech lastweek, Santorum -http://www.google.com/url?sa=t&rct=j&q=&esrc=s&source=web&cd=1&ved=0CCIQFjAA&url=http%3A%2F%2Fwww.washingtonpost.com%2Fblogs%2Felection-2012%2Fpost%2Fkaren-santorum-husbands-presidential-run-is-gods-will%2F2012%2F02%2F23%2FgIQAhCkdWR_blog.html&ei=6JxnT6TAOMbx0gGes-y2CQ&usg=AFQjCNE1DSHRct-LxMAcF2XBNdl8oAAbsw&sig2=4Le00HF6dadIneWO_gRcAg-URL-whose wife has said her husband believes "God is calling"him to seek the presidency - said what he hears most often from voters is "I'mpraying for you."The man they are praying for was raised in the liberalizing church of the early1970s and has since taken several turns toward the deeply conservativeCatholicism that now anchors his worldview. There was his marriage to KarenGarver and the influence of her devoutly Catholic parents. There was the deathof Santorum's infant son Gabriel in 1996. All have been part of the candidate'spublic narrative.Less well known is Santorum's embrace of the Catholicism of Opus Dei, arelatively small yet influential group within the church that is defined by theintensity with which followers are urged to live out church doctrine - inEscriva's words, to "seek holiness" in all realms of life.The group encourages "unity" between followers' personal and public lives asCatholics, the rigorous practice of church sacraments and, to some degree,gestures of self-denial. Its most devoted members follow a daily two-hour ritualof wearing a spiked metal chain on their thighs to recall Christ's suffering - apractice followed by Mother Teresa.Santorum, whose campaign declined several requests for comment, is not a memberof Opus Dei, according to the group, and it is not clear to what degree headheres to its tenets.But Opus Dei, whose name is Latin for "Work of God," has become a significantpresence in his life. Santorum has for years attended a church with a number ofOpus Dei followers and other affiliations with the group, and he has sent two ofhis sons to a school run by Opus Dei members. Among his family friends is theRev. C. John McCloskey, an Opus Dei priest who is a spiritual mentor to manyprominent Washington conservatives. McCloskey traveled to Rome with Santorum,led him on a retreat with the group and baptized one of his children."He was attracted to Escriva and the spirit of Opus Dei, the idea of layCatholics . . . giving Jesus Christ a presence in the workplace," said MonsignorWilliam Stetson, a priest with the organization who knew Santorum after he leftthe Senate in 2007.By then, Santorum had come to embrace a version of Catholicism far removed fromthe one he knew in the early 1970s, when church rituals were relaxing, whenCatholic kids were being taught to see moral complexity, and when Santorum, ayoung teenager then, developed a rapport with a freewheeling Franciscan priestwho spoke of Catholicism in terms of moral shades of gray.Shades of graySantorum's introduction to faith came while he was growing up in the hilly,working-class town of Butler, at a time when parishes were embracing thehistoric new policies of the Second Vatican Council, which sought to make thechurch more relevant to a changing world.Priests who had said the Mass in Latin with their backs turned began facing thecongregation and saying it in English. Folk Masses became common. Even Godappeared gentler: In one Butler church, a parishioner recalled painters erasingthunderbolts alongside a portrait she understood to be the Almighty andreplacing them with a blue sky and angels.At the veterans hospital where Santorum's parents worked and his family lived,change came in the form of the Rev. Alex Mullaugh, a priest who was assigned tothe chapel on the hospital grounds, where Santorum was the only altar boy.Father Alex, as he was known - a tall figure in sandals and a brown robe - madean impression, said Santorum's younger brother, Dan."He was just a younger, cooler guy," recalled Dan Santorum. "He'd sometimes comeover to the pool. You didn't think of a priest going swimming, so it was justdifferent."A neighbor, Ray Stierer, said Father Alex and his childhood friend "just hit itoff.""He was always there," Stierer said, referring to Santorum's friendship withMullaugh. "It just came out of nowhere."In a recent interview, Mullaugh said he "pushed the envelope" of churchtradition, roaming up and down the chapel aisles giving sermons that aimed to"stir people up.""I remember saying that there were gray areas," recalled Mullaugh, who left thepriesthood in 1975 and is now a retired computer salesman living in Pittsburgh."I remember saying that there are a lot more letters in the alphabet than A andZ and we need to use all of them."Santorum heard similar lessons at the Catholic school he attended until theeighth grade. In religion classes there and at St. Paul church, where he wasconfirmed, young priests, some wearing jeans and longer hair, talked aboutmorally complex situations."I remember discussions about how it's not always clear what the right choiceis," said Amy Pierce, a classmate of Santorum's.Mullaugh said Santorum absorbed those ideas."He just seemed to be so serious," he said. "Such a serious kid."Finding claritySantorum's first turn away from the gray-area Catholicism of his youth came whenhe met his future wife, Garver, around 1988.She had only recently ended a six-year relationship with an obstetrician andabortion provider 40 years her senior. Her relationship with Tom Allen - whodelivered her in 1960 - had led her to drift from her devoutly Catholic family.Santorum, a lawyer moving toward his first campaign for Congress, describedhimself as "a nominal Catholic" at the time."I didn't like the idea of abortion - I knew it was wrong, but I wasn't sure ifit was the government's business to do anything about it," he wrote in his 2005book, "It Takes a Family."Then came a dinner at the home of Garver's parents, and a discussion aboutabortion, and then, recalled her mother, Betty Lee Garver, "we had them watch atape that we had, called 'Meet the Abortion Providers.' "In the video, people introduced as doctors and nurses who formerly performedabortions graphically described the procedures, their words accompanied byphotographs of what appeared to be dismembered fetuses in trash cans."They just sat there crying," Betty Lee Garver said in a brief interview at herPittsburgh home. "And they became instantly pro-life. . . . With this and whenthey started to have children, they started to think more about their faith. Ithink through the years maybe they watched us," she said, referring to herselfand her husband. "And we are devout Catholics, not cafeteria Catholics."Santorum has said that switch to being firmly opposed to abortion had to do withhis reading of scientific literature, but also with his religion.In the Senate, he crusaded against what some opponents call "partial-birth"abortion, saying in a 1996 floor speech that there must be "some sort of moralcode in this country."At the time, Karen Santorum was pregnant with the couple's fourth child andbegan to develop serious complications. Their son http://www.washingtonpost.com/politics/karen-santorum-opens-up-about-miscarriage-128/2012/03/05/gIQAHwJCtR_video.html-URL-Gabriel was born prematurely and died two hours later. They tookhim home and buried him the next day.Betty Lee Garver said the loss caused her son-in-law to "go deeper" in hisfaith. And in the years after, both he and Karen spoke of "God's purpose" inGabriel's short life.In Karen Santorum's 1998 book, "Letters to Gabriel," she includes a kind ofexhortation to her husband, writing: "Your daddy needs to proclaim God's messagefor life with even more strength and devotion to the cause."A 'turn away from God'That same year, Rick Santorum met McCloskey, the Opus Dei priest, and began toassert his faith more publicly.He started a prayer group in the Senate. McCloskey enlisted Santorum's help inconverting then-Sen. Sam Brownback (R-Kan.) to Catholicism. And in 2002,Santorum traveled with McCloskey to Rome for the conference on Escriva.It was there that Santorum, in response to a reporter's question, first publiclyrejected a speech in which John F. Kennedy, speaking as a presidential candidatein 1960 to voters wary of his Catholicism, affirmed that his religious viewswould not dictate his public policies. Santorum said it had caused "much harm inAmerica."In his address, Santorum embraced Escriva's view that it is "absurd" to leaveone's Catholicism aside in conducting politics. He said that "as an American,and as a public figure, I am deeply troubled by this turn away from God."The crux of the speech was a point that Santorum returned to several times."Without a shared belief system that is held and enforced," he said, "a culturedisintegrates into moral chaos."For guidance on these matters, Santorum said, he turns to "blessed Josemaria."The speech was his first public embrace of the organization Escriva founded in1928, which now has about 90,000 members worldwide, including 3,000 in theUnited States.The group has been criticized in the past by former members as "cult-like" andpraised by other members and a succession of popes for its strong commitment tochurch teachings and loyalty to the Vatican.About 70 percent of its members are "supernumeraries," who can marry, whileabout 20 percent are "numeraries," who live in celibacy. Numeraries typicallywear the spiked chain and perform "the discipline," occasionally strikingthemselves with a braided cord as a reminder of Jesus's suffering.Brian Finnerty, U.S. spokesman for Opus Dei, said that the group has noexpectation with regard to political positions, but encourages "coherence"between religious principles and politics, especially for Catholic politicians."Any person who is either voting or acting in public life should base his or heractions on these fundamental principles," Finnerty said.In 2002, the scandal over sexual abuse by priests was shaking the CatholicChurch, including Santorum's former parish in Butler, St. Paul, where one of theyoung, long-haired priests of the 1970s was accused of molesting three boys,including a classmate of Santorum's, and placed on leave that April.It is unclear whether Santorum knew that when he gave a speech in July,expressing "profound sympathy" for victims and blaming the abuse on the moralrelativism he had just spoken of in Rome."Priests, like all of us, are affected by culture," he said. "When the cultureis sick, every element in it becomes infected."What was needed, he said, was greater fidelity to church teachings instead of"watered-down versions of our faith."'We are all sinners'When two of Santorum's sons were around the age he was when he met Father Alex,he sent them to the Heights, a private liberal arts boys school in Potomac runby Opus Dei members. Its headmaster, Alvaro de Vicente, is a numerary.When Santorum is home in Virginia, he attends St. Catherine of Siena in GreatFalls, one of the few churches in the diocese that host a monthly Opus Deispiritual meeting. A priest from the group comes in to hear confessions.Santorum often attends the noon Mass in Latin."We are all sinners," the Rev. Alexander R. Drummond said one recent Sunday,faulting Catholics for accepting a world in which "every possible sin [is]exalted."In a 2008 speech at Ave Maria University in Florida, Santorum strongly echoedthat idea.He said that Satan has used "the great vices of pride, vanity and sensuality" tocorrupt universities, politics and even most Christian churches, except one."You say, 'The Catholic Church?' No," Santorum said, explaining that Satan aimedat the country's Protestant roots. ". . . If you look at mainline Protestantismin this country, it is in shambles. It is gone from the world of Christianity."Three years later, Santorum has incorporated those views into a campaign thathas steadily gained momentum. On Friday, he traveled to Illinois, the nextcrucial state in the Republican primary battle. On a day of rallies andfundraising, he spent half an hour meeting with McCloskey, the Opus Dei priest.mccrummens@washpost.commarkonj@washpost.comMcCrummen reported from Butler, Pa.; Markon reported from Washington. Researcheditor Alice Crites in Washington contributed to this report.