W hatever you think of Dyana Mason's mission, there's no question she has avery tough job. Mason runs Equality Virginia, which makes her the lobbyist forgay rights in a state where gay marriage is a topic for a future century (onanother planet), legislators openly trade anti-gay slurs, and the state attorneygeneral resists relaxing the anti-sodomy law even after the U.S. Supreme Courtorders up a change.Mason, 33, gamely works the halls of the Capitol, testifying against the flurryof bills introduced each year to ensure that homosexuals don't get treated likeother Virginians."This bill could mean that me and my partner of four years could not visit eachother in the hospital if one of us was sick," Mason told senators considering anAffirmation of Marriage Act last week. "This bill would continue to codifysecond-class status for one group of Virginians."Senators listened politely, asked no questions, and then discussed amongthemselves how gay marriage would lead to Virginia schoolchildren having tolisten to gay teachers proselytizing on behalf of homosexuality."The average Virginian, if you ask them 'What do you think of gay people?' it's'Live and let live,' " Mason contends. "But in the General Assembly, if there isthe word 'gay' in there anywhere, they will throw up a wall, do anything to stopit. They'll do stuff that is clearly illegal or against the spirit of the law."Nonetheless -- or perhaps because of the legislature's firm stance againstexpanding civil rights for gays -- Mason's group has seen its membership jumpfrom less than 1,000 to more than 2,500 in the past year. When Equality Virginiaheld its annual reception last month, 24 legislators and the governor andlieutenant governor showed up, a big boost for Richmond's most marginalizedlobby.Mason took on this job a year ago, moving to Richmond from Northern Virginia,where she lived while working for the Human Rights Campaign, a national gayrights lobby. Before that, she worked for green groups on the West Coast, soshe's used to being on the losing side of political battles. "In six yearsworking for an environmental group, we never got one of our bills to even comeup for a vote," she says.Despite open antagonism from many conservatives -- Del. Robert Marshall(R-Prince William), the gay lobby's most vociferous opponent, called the SupremeCourt ruling on sodomy an "apocalypse for society," while Del. Brad Marrs(R-Richmond) called homosexuality "a form of sexual misconduct that is a crime"-- Mason says legislators treat her (and the state's first openly gay lawmaker,Del. Adam Ebbin of Arlington) with respect.She does not expect that popular acceptance of gay people will come primarilyfrom rewriting laws. "The main issue is that we have not educated enoughfair-minded people yet," Mason says. "The only way to change hearts and minds isfor more people to get to know a gay person." To push that process along, Masonspends much of her time traveling around the state, particularly to smallercommunities, encouraging closeted gays to come out.As with so many issues in Virginia, there's a deep cultural divide between theWashington area, where Arlington and other jurisdictions have been frustrated inattempts to win state permission to grant benefits to partners of gay employees,and more conservative, rural places. But Mason believes that even statewide, aconstitutional amendment banning gay marriage might not win voter approval."Polls show that people in the South are the least likely to know a gay person,"she says, but even so, opposition to gay marriage runs only about 5 percenthigher in the South than elsewhere.Still, Mason's immediate goals are more modest: "We have to demonstrate it's notcool to make an anti-gay slur."I argued that the in-your-face openness of many Virginia legislators' hostilityis actually refreshing -- wouldn't you rather know precisely where your opponentstands than have to deal with sub rosa animosity?"No," Mason says, "we have to get slurs out of the public discussion. If we getthat stuff stopped, we have a better chance of everyone being treated withrespect. These fights are decades-long, not something that is going to bedecided in one legislative session.""Potomac Confidential" will return next Thursday at www.washingtonpost.com/liveonline.