Anyone who was shocked by the most recent revelations of sexual misconduct byUnited Nations staff has never set foot in a U.N.-sponsored refugee camp. Sexcrimes are only one especially disturbing symptom of a culture of abuse thatexists in the United Nations precisely because the United Nations and its stafflack accountability.This lack of accountability is the central blemish on today's United Nations,and it lies behind most of the recent headlines. Whether taking advantage of amalnourished refugee or of a lucrative oil-for-food contract, the temptation isthere, the act is easy and the risk of punishment is nil.I arrived in Sierra Leone as a legal aid worker in the summer of 2003, one yearafter the release of a damaging report on sexual abuse in U.N. refugee camps inWest Africa. Although the report's description of widespread sexual abuse hadprompted Secretary General Kofi Annan to issue a strongly worded "zerotolerance" policy, I found abuse of a sexual nature almost every day  --  zerocompliance with zero tolerance, as one investigator was to write. U.N. leadershad simply not expended any effort beyond lip service to carry out this zerotolerance policy.In fact, abuse at these camps went beyond sexual violations: Injustices of onesort or another were perpetrated by U.N. missions or their affiliatednongovernmental organizations every day in the camps I visited. Corruption wasthe norm, in particular the embezzlement of food and funds by NGO officials,which often left camp resources dangerously inadequate. Utterly arbitraryjudicial systems in the camps subjected refugees to violent physical punishmentor months in prison for trivial offenses  --  all at the whim of officials andin the absence of any sort of hearing.I became especially involved in the plight of 11 young Liberian men from theTobanda refugee camp near Kenema, Sierra Leone. They had been arrested andimprisoned, without trial, by the U.N.-sponsored camp management. Theaccusation: stealing plastic tarps. The refugee youths had received permissionfrom camp management to use surplus tarps for housing, but they had not beengiven explicit permission to do so by officials of the Office of the U.N. HighCommissioner for Refugees (UNHCR).The camp's management later had them arrested by the local authorities, and theyremained in a squalid, inadequate Sierra Leonean state prison, without a formaltrial or any legal representation. Of course, the UNHCR officer assigned tomonitor refugees in local prisons would be unaware of this fact  --  a prisonlog book revealed that he had not visited the prison for several months. By thetime the young men were freed they had spent four months in a filthy, dampprison and were suffering from malaria, scabies and malnutrition. The prison wasjust yards from the UNHCR (and UNICEF) headquarters in Kenema.This experience was sadly typical for the refugees with whom I worked. Althoughcharged with the care of desperate refugees, many of the UNHCR staff remainedambivalent or hostile to the basic rights and needs of these vulnerable people.And they acted without fear of consequence.The risk to these staff members is low in U.N. refugee camps, becausepeacekeepers engaged in criminal acts are immune from local prosecution.Therefore, local parties seeking justice must travel to the peacekeeper's homecountry. U.N. workers from countries with unresponsive legal systems, or thosecommitting unspectacular crimes, can sleep easy. At the same time, local NGOemployees who are contracted by the United Nations to work in the camps arecovered by a de facto implied immunity. That is, if these individuals areidentified as being connected with U.N. operations, they will probably neverface charges for their actions by local authorities. In West Africa, most of thesexual misconduct accusations are leveled against local NGO staff members.If the United Nations is to enjoy such immunity, it is incumbent on theorganization to police itself aggressively and thoroughly. Yet the recentstonewalling over a series of scandals from the United Nations  --  fromoil-for-food to a sexual harassment imbroglio involving a high U.N. official  --are typical of a bureaucracy dedicated to self-preservation. This code ofbehavior travels rapidly down the organizational chart. The message is: Coveryour tracks and the United Nations will obstruct your prosecution.After the 2002 report documented sexual abuse, Annan's steely resolve led toexactly zero criminal prosecutions of U.N. officials for sexual abuse. I expectlittle difference now that refugee camp conditions have returned to theheadlines. As before, Annan has delivered vague statements but prosecuted noone. It appears that the status quo reigns and that those perpetrating all sortsof abuses in refugee camps may continue undisturbed. The United Nations is avital institution that needs a housecleaning.The writer is a student at New York University School of Law. He worked for theFoundation for International Dignity in the refugee camps surrounding Kenema,Sierra Leone, in 2003. He will be available to answer questions at 2 p.m. todayon www.washingtonpost.com.