The District's summer jobs program was supposed to be smaller, cheaper and "moreefficient" this year, as Mayor Vincent C. Gray said again and again. All told,it had 7,000 fewer participants and probably cost a few million dollars less.The mayor's budget office estimates the six-week program - scaled back to 14,000participants after years of rising costs and logistical chaos - will spend atotal of  $18.8 million. That's about $250 more a person than last year, whenthe program cost $22.8 million and served about 21,000 people.The Department of Employment Services, which runs the program, could not providea detailed explanation for the higher costs, but officials have previously citedthe extra work that goes into assigning participants, training supervisors andrunning orientation sessions.One initiative that did not add to the costs, officials said, was the effort -dubbed "One City Summer Fun" -  to offer unpaid alternative activities for youngpeople leftout of the program.A spokesman for the Department of Employment Services said the agency will notknow the final cost of the entire program until after the last payday next weekbut expects it to be under budget.In an interview, Gray said the program had overcome many of its past problems."The goal was to do a well-run program, and this has been a well-run program,with not a lot of glitches or problems," Gray said Wednesday. "We wanted kids tohave jobs where they go every day, do things every day, show up on time and getalong with people."But some parents and community groups questioned whether ironing out theadministration of the program did enough to create a valuable work experiencefor the young people who participated.Logistics and learningThe program, which pays 14- to 21-year-old D.C. residents to work in governmentagencies and local businesses, was initially capped at 12,000 participants, witha $16.3 million budget. On the first day, after revised revenue estimates freedup an additional $3 million to $5 million, the mayor expanded it, adding 2,126participants, which he said emptied the waiting list. (More than 20,000 hadoriginally registered.) The expansion cost $2.5 million.Officials said this year's program saw far fewer complaints of payroll problemsand "kid-dumping" - or sending participants to work sites where they had nothingto do, as happened in recent years.But the program still had its share of mix-ups. Justin Ferrell was assigned towork at the Department of Justice but couldn't get a security clearance becausehe is 15. His mother, Erica Ferrell, said he was reassigned to a clerical job ata city agency, but it was too advanced for him, so they decided to give up onthe program. Justin was paid about $50 for his trouble."I couldn't understand it, because they knew how old he was when he applied,"Erica Ferrell said.Lisa Mallory, director of the Department of Employment Services, said thequality of work experiences improved this year because, for the first time,participants were matched to jobs based on their interests, and employers couldinterview and screen applicants.John Hamilton, a 19-year-old TV production major at Norfolk State University inVirginia who lives in Brookland, worked at a production company in Georgetown,where he planned, wrote, shot and edited a documentary."I've shot stuff before on my own, but never in a documentary format withsomeone looking over my shoulder who knows what they're doing," he said, addingthat some of his friends couldn't find work or took jobs that were less relevantto their career aspirations. "Some are just getting money in their pockets - andthere's nothing wrong with that."Hamilton's job, along with those of 64 other participants, was arranged by theUrban Alliance Foundation, which runs youth training and mentoring programs. Itsdirector, Veronica Nolan, said the program's success should be judged on theskills and experience that participants gain."The city needs to decide what is the purpose of the summer jobs program - is ita crime prevention strategy, in which case it makes sense to hire as many youthsas possible, or is it a quality jobs program that gets youths on the right trackto a viable career?" she said.Safety concernshttp://www.washingtonpost.com/local/dc-politics/man-accused-in-dc-youth-program-sexual-assault-had-criminal-record/2011/07/05/gHQA0GLnzH_story.htmlAfter asmooth start, the program was rocked by two allegations of sexual misconduct inits first week.One occurred at the headquarters of the Department of Employment Services, wherea 54-year-old file clerk with a criminal record made sexual advances on a17-year-old summer hire. Thomas D. Nelson, 54, pleaded guilty Wednesday toattempted second-degree sexual abuse of a minor in a significant relationship.In the other incident, a 19-year-old participant said a construction contractortouched her inappropriately at Anacostia Senior High School in Southeast. Policesaid this week that they were still investigating and did not have a suspect.Security concerns resurfaced on the program's first payday, when the mayor'soffice directed the city's firefighters to help monitor certain intersectionsnear banks where program participants collect pay.The cap on the summer jobs program left many young people complaining about alack of jobs, though city officials from the mayor down defended the program'srecord.  At atown hall meeting Saturday, one young person handed the mayor 10pages of signatures she said she collected from youths in her neighborhood whowere looking for jobs.A spokesman for employment services later said that of the 94 names on thepetition, 75 never applied to the summer jobs program, five applied but didn'tsubmit eligibility papers, 13 participated, and one was fired for falsifying hertime card."We cannot knock on your door and say, 'Here's a job for you!' " Mallory said."That's not the real world."arnsdorfi@washpost.comCORRECTION-DATE: August 19, 2011CORRECTION:Based on information supplied by the D.C. police, an Aug. 5 Metro article aboutthe District's summer youth employment program reported that police did not havea suspect in one of the sexual misconduct investigations involving the jobsprogram. But D.C. police spokeswoman Gwendolyn Crump now says a man has beencharged in the case, in which a 19-year-old participant in the program allegedthat she was touched inappropriately by a construction contractor. The suspect,who is 33 years old, turned himself in on July 13 and was charged with one countof misdemeanor sex abuse, one count of attempted misdemeanor sex abuse and onecount of simple assault, according to Crump.