As I write this, it is almost 6 p.m., and my family is assembling around the TV,eagerly awaiting the start of CNN's "Lou Dobbs Tonight," our favorite comedyshow.Now, if you're thinking: "Hey, wait a minute, that's not a comedy show! That's aserious look at world affairs hosted by a dignified, award-winning journalist,"then you either:1) do not watch the show, or2) are Lou Dobbs.Lou used to be an actual newsman, but then, some years ago, he apparentlyrealized that whenever he expressed outrage over illegal immigration oroutsourcing of jobs -- hot-button issues among the xenophobically inclined --his viewership climbed. Like a pigeon in a box who gets rewarded with a cornkernel every time he flaps a designated wing, Lou was soon just one big madlyflapping right wing.Before I began watching this show, I had no strong opinion about illegalimmigration. Now, I'm in favor of not only granting illegal immigrantscitizenship, but also of giving them each a fancy car and a semiautomaticweapon, if for no other reason than to watch "Lou Dobbs Tonight" and see if aman can literally explode from bluster.Lou grew up in Texas, the son of a propane salesman, and if this soundsfamiliar, you are probably a fan of "King of the Hill," another really funnyshow. As you can see from the twinned images on this page, the physicalresemblance between Lou and young Bobby Hill -- son of a Texas propane salesman-- is pretty dramatic. Hank Hill always looks at his son and says, "That boyain't right."I'm just saying."Lou Dobbs Tonight" can sneak up on you, like a pirate ship not flying its truecolors. At first, it appears to be a normal talk show in a familiar format, withnicely dressed men and women in swivel chairs speaking in pleasant, professionalaltos and baritones. But then odd things begin to happen. A typical segment on"Lou Dobbs Tonight" includes an interview with some newsmaker who agrees withLou entirely on every issue, so the conversations tend to go like this:Lou: What in the world is wrong with these politicians who want to sendmanufacturing jobs to China? What are they, idiots?Newsmaker: "Idiots" is too good a word for them, Lou. They're vomit sandwicheson whole wheat toast.Lou: Vomit? At least vomit has nutrients in it! They're feces on an onion bagel!Newsmaker: Feces? Feces is too good a . . .If a charge is incendiary enough, Lou doesn't demand all that much by way ofverification. Not long ago, his show suggested that illegal immigrants hadrecently caused nearly an eight-fold increase in leprosy here. Leprosy! That'llget your attention!Unfortunately, this proved to be somewhat false, but only in the limited sensethat illegal immigrants haven't caused a big rise inleprosy in this country, inasmuch as the number of new cases has actuallydeclined since 1988. Lou's source was a long-discredited report by a fulminatingracist with no medical credentials. The woman, now deceased, also believed thatmost Latino male immigrants were child and/or nun molesters.My favorite parts of "Lou Dobbs Tonight," however, are his polls. Like many TVshows, LDT has gone interactive, using the Web to instantly report hisaudience's views. The difference between this show and most others is that Lou'svotes are never close. They reveal a startling unanimity of American opinion,always in agreement with Lou, usually by majorities of 95 percent or more. Noone has gotten this kind of electoral support since Saddam Hussein.How does such a thing happen? Lou's polls read like this:Choice 1: I think we need to do something about illegal aliens with poorpersonal hygiene who run amok and rape decent American women.Choice 2: I think it is good if illegal aliens with poor personal hygiene runamok and rape decent American women.Okay, the show is starting now, and here's Lou. Hang on, I'll be back when it'sover.IT WAS A PRETTY TYPICAL SHOW. The main issue was the Senate's immigration reformbill, which had garnered surprisingly bipartisan support. But Lou hates thisbill. He called it a "pathetic charade" and said that the senators who supportit are "acting like clowns" and that their arguments are "just nuts." Then, toshow his evenhandedness, he brought on both a Democrat and a Republican whooppose the bill.Finally, his poll. Here's how Lou phrased the question: "Is a bad immigrationbill better than no bill at all?"Ninety-seven percent of the viewers decided a bad bill is . . . bad.Gene Weingarten's e-mail address is weingarten@washpost.comChat with him online Tuesdays at noon at www.washingtonpost.com.