A young man follows a teenage girl along a street in India's capital on a recentmuggy morning, leering. The girl, wearing jeans topped with a long tunic,quickens her steps. As the man closes in, she covers her mouth with her hands.Bystanders cover their eyes.Then everybody freezes in place.The two had just acted out the first scene of a street play about sexualharassment and social acquiescence that Indian university students have beenperforming across the city as part of the run-up to SlutWalk Delhi, India'sversion of the campus campaign that began in Toronto in April and has sincespread to Argentina, Australia, Britain, Germany, South Korea and the UnitedStates.The walk, designed as a protest against a Canadian police officer who advisedwomen to "avoid dressing like sluts" if they want to be safe from sexualassault, has elsewhere involved women dressing as provocatively as they please.But in India, the SlutWalk set for this coming Sunday is getting a makeover,with student organizers saying they have tweaked the original concept to bettermatch India's conservative social palette.The confrontational "slut" has been softened by adding the Hindi word for"shamelessness" to the event's title. Women have been asked to march in theirregular clothes. And weekly public debates and street theater are being promotedeven more energetically than the walk itself.Rather than focusing on clothes, the campaign is questioning gender stereotypesembedded in ancient Hindu religious epics, Bollywood movies and sexistmatrimonial classified ads."There will be no dress code" for the march, said Umang Sabarwal, 19, theevent's chief organizer. "In India, no matter what we wear, even if we arecovered head to toe in a sari or a burqa, we get molested and raped. A woman'sfight in India is more basic - it is a fight for the right to be born,education, nutritious food, work."New Delhi, a city of about 16.7 million, has reported 258 cases of rape ormolestation through June this year, and women in the city routinelyfaceharassment in buses and on the metro system. SlutWalk Delhi has Twitter andFacebook accounts, but in an effort to be more inclusive, march organizers havealso begun distributing pamphlets, titled "Speak Up," to women in thecityhttp://www.washingtonpost.com/wp-dyn/content/article/2010/11/25/AR2010112503548.html."We want to reach a larger audience, beyond the campus and the Facebook crowd,"said Mishika Singh, 20, a law student and a walk coordinator.The young English-speaking students also find themselves having to work hard tosecure the backing of an older generation of feminists who prefer to be moreculturally rooted. When they approached the government-run National Commissionfor Women and other women's organizations for funding and support, they wererebuffed."I agree with the cause, but the packaging is wrong," said Ranjana Kumari, aleading feminist who heads the Center for Social Research. "I tried to counselthe students not to alienate the majority of Indian women. The Indian feministmovement took many decades to recover from the damage caused by the Americanbra-tossing campaigns. Let us not ape the West unnecessarily and trivialize ourfight."Still, India is urbanizing rapidly and embracing global culture. Two-thirds ofthe country's 1.2 billion people are younger than 35, and many young women saythey are battling the same stereotypes as elsewhere.Shefalee Vasudev, a fashion columnist for the Indian Express newspaper, wrotethis month: "Damn the intellectuals. SlutWalk is actually about clothes, aboutwhat we wear and how. That's why if we all turn up in 'decent clothes' for theSlutWalk, we may not be able to make the point."Amid rising crime against women, the city's police commissioner offered someadvice last week. "You can't travel alone at 2 a.m. and then say Delhi is notsafe," B.K. Gupta said. "It would be ideal if a woman takes her brother ordriver along."Two years ago, a young woman was killed while going home late from work. Delhi'schief minister, Sheila Dikshit, caused a public outcry at the time when she saidthat women should not be "adventurous."Prateeka Nanda, 19, an undergraduate volunteer, said: "We hear such advice allthe time from our parents. The restrictions are always put on women, never onthe men. Men do not own the public space. We want to reclaim it."Last Sunday, the central Indian town of Bhopal was the scene of India's firstSlutWalk. Only 50 people showed up. The organizers said parents did not allowtheir daughters to participate.lakshmir@washpost.com