What's longer: Your re[acute]sume[acute] or your rap sheet?A criminal record can make finding a job more difficult, but it doesn't have tomean the end of your career, depending on how you handle it.Many workers hide it. This sometimes involves flat-out lying, but more oftenpeople with records just avoid jobs for which they know a background check willbe done."I've managed to work my way into the likes of two Fortune 100 companies as wellas several prominent nonprofit associations without revealing my past," said aWashington area information technology worker in his thirties who has beenworking with a "background" since 1993.He said he has told only one prospective employer about his past, and thecompany still wanted to interview him. He also said he has turned downinterviews after discovering that the firm does background checks.If you want to work for a big company, he advises, try to get hired by one ofits contractors, because "a lot of contracting companies still don't dobackground checks."Get your foot in the door and demonstrate some "superb work habits andabilities." If your criminal background has to be revealed, it will be "softenedby the good work habits and ethics," he said.Despite his own success with concealing his record, he now advises a moreupfront approach. "Dazzle the interviewers, go through the offer stage, thenbring up the criminal past. . . . It's better to get the criminal background outin the open if possible. Nothing worse then wondering, 'What if someone foundout?' "Another man, a 26-year-old who was convicted on a felony charge of hit-and-rundriving, said that, on the advice of his lawyer, he never mentions theconviction on his job applications."If you put it down, you will get flat-out rejected. If you do not, you have atleast a chance," he said. He said he thought that because he had a pardon theconviction would not show up.However, the chance you get could turn out to be worthless if the employers findout later. Some businesses have very strict rules about employing people withcriminal records.The man with the hit-and-run conviction recently lost a temp job as anadministrative assistant at a financial firm in New York. His conviction didn'tcome up until the company wanted to hire him full time, and it did a backgroundcheck. "After they found out it was a felony, they told me that I could nolonger work for them . . . that Wall Street would not let anyone with a felonyconviction work at a financial firm within 12 years of the conviction," he said."They wanted me to stay. . . . It was kind of sad, because I liked my job," hesaid.Another man, a video producer with a drug possession conviction, said he oftenlied about his record. "I wanted my prospective employer to see me for what Iwas, an educated, capable and enthusiastic person who was willing to give it allto get the job done."It worked, until he applied for a county job that required fingerprints. He gotthe job, but he was fired a month and a half later -- because he had lied on hisapplication.It's tempting to think, "Well, that's what they get for lying." Except it's hardto get past the feeling of shame people feel about their police records. "Younever get over the stigmatization and guilt that you feel every time you go tofill [out] an application for employment," the video producer said.A 33-year-old Leesburg man who has a misdemeanor conviction for theft ofgovernment property said he has always been honest about his record."I've never had an employer tell me that they would have hired me if I didn'thave a record. However, since prospective employers don't have to tell you whythey chose not to hire you, it's possible that my record took me out of therunning for a job."If the job application asks about your criminal record, be honest. If askedabout it in an interview, be honest and candid. Try to present it in the bestpossible light." However, if they don't ask, "don't bring it up," he said.Trudy L. McCrea, an executive coach at Achieve-It LLP, a coaching servicescompany with offices in the District and Reston, suggests that job applicantsnot dwell on the details of their criminal records and instead try "turning itinto a positive.""Employers are looking for people who can learn from mistakes, are focused onpersonal growth, have courage and can handle adversity. If the potentialemployee can get comfortable with their past and explain the experience as apainful but insightful experience, they may have an edge over the typicalcandidate," she said."If a candidate can talk me through a serious situation like a DUI and maintaintheir confidence and control of the interview, I'd be impressed."She said she would avoid a person who blames others for their problems or cannotdiscuss the situation with confidence.Robin R. Runge, coordinator of the Program on Women's Employment Rights at theD.C. Employment Justice Center, also encourages the honest approach. She tellspeople to focus on the present, not the past. She advises attaching a briefletter of explanation to job applications. "Not a letter of woe," she said, justa brief description of what you did and what you've learned from your mistakes.The D.C. Employment Justice Center recently published a handbook, "CriminalRecords & Employment: What You Need to Know About Your Rap Sheet, and Your Rightto a Job," which contains excellent information about handling your criminalrecord with employers. A copy is available on its Web site, www.dcejc.org, or bycalling the center at 202-828-9675.Certainly companies could sometimes be more sympathetic to people's efforts toput their lives back together after a criminal conviction. But there often arevalid reasons a company would not want to hire someone with a felony record,especially if the offense was violent."If an employee has a sexual assault conviction, for example, and later assaultsa co-worker, the company would be held liable to the victim if it knew or shouldhave known that the employee was a risk to co-workers," said Eric Welter, amanagement-side employment attorney at Welter Law Firm in Herndon.He advises companies to consider a number of factors to see whether they arecomfortable that the employee's contributions and service outweigh future legalrisks."I have had clients decide to retain an employee with a prior convictionbecause, on balance, the employee had earned the right to have the benefit ofthe doubt as to future risk. With respect to convictions for crimes of violence,however, I generally counsel employers that the risk of retaining the employee,particularly one who has also been dishonest about the conviction, outweigh anypossible benefit. . . . The more serious the crime, the more likely the employeewill be terminated for having misrepresented his or her criminal history on thejob application."So, just be honest. Of course, some people will still judge you for your past,but it is less likely to hurt you if you are upfront about your "background"than if you try to cover it up.And what if you are on the other side of the interview? Employers should keep inmind that in many cases a person with a police record isn't any more of a"criminal" than the "good" people they're considering. They just got caught.Join Mary Ellen Slayter on Thursday at 11 a.m. for Career Track Live atWashingtonpost.com. Her e-mail address is slayterme@washpost.com.