News that appeared Dec. 13 to 19 in The Washington Post that is of interest toreaders in Prince William County.Wednesday 16N.Va. narcotics sting leads to 38 arrestsNearly 40 people have been arrested across Northern Virginia in a stingtargeting drug dealers ranging in age from 18 to 54, many of whom sold largeamounts of heroin and prescription narcotics to high school students and youngadults in Prince William and western Fairfax counties. The recent overdosedeaths in Prince William of Matthew Mittong and Mindy Weakley, both 26, played alarge role in prompting police to infiltrate a group of dealers who primarilysell heroin bought in Baltimore and the District, as well as prescription drugscontaining oxycodone and methadone. Prince William police said they willcontinue to target the sources of such drugs and are working with federalauthorities to unearth fraudulent prescription practices.Thursday 17NVCC preparedness credited to Va. TechLessons learned from the 2007 Virginia Tech shootings led directly to the quickresponse of faculty, staff and students during the recent shooting on theWoodbridge campus of Northern Virginia Community College, columnist RobertMcCartney writes. History professor Bill Rhatican, whose class was meetingdirectly below the site of the shooting, said he followed the proceduresoutlined in an e-mail to faculty this year. His preparedness helped put a groupof huddled, scared students at ease. "The teacher calmed everyone down. Hereally took control," said student Kevin Rogers, 19, of Manassas. Two daysbefore the incident, the school's police team had gone through a mandatory,eight-hour training session that included a scenario in which a student shot ateacher. One of the participants was the campus officer whose quick radio calltriggered the rapid response.Serial rapist suspected in Halloween assaultsA masked man who raped two Dale City teenagers on Halloween night has beenlinked to a string of sexual assaults along the East Coast that span more than adecade. Police said the serial rapist's DNA has been found at 13 crime scenes infour states. In addition to the Halloween assaults, he is believed to haveattacked four women in Fairfax County, one in Leesburg, seven in Prince George'sCounty and one in Connecticut. He was spotted peeping through a sliding glassdoor in Rhode Island, police said. Although officials have known his geneticfingerprint for at least seven years, efforts to attach a name have hit deadends.For these and other articles, visit washingtonpost.com/princewilliam.