Hi, Carolyn:My boyfriend and I have been dating for seven months. I love him deeply, and hefeels the same about me. I was raped rather brutally five years ago and, as aresult of an exercise my therapist gave me, I released a lot of the rage I'd hadpent up inside for years. My boyfriend was unfortunate enough to be present forthis incident, and some of this anger was thrown at him (because he was the onlyperson present at the time). I had warned him that I was going to get very angryand he opted to stick around--he knew about the rape and the therapist'sassignment--but he got upset by my explosion and left me for a week. He e-mailedthat he was breaking up with me, and he and his friends broke off all contact.I did deal with that anger on my own. After a week, when I was attempting toreturn his keys to his roommate, I ran into him and he asked if we could talk.He apologized for his actions, I did too, we made up and we're dating again. Myfriends are telling me to leave him since he wouldn't stand by me when I neededsupport, my therapist is telling me to remember I have other options and not tothink I need him, and my mom thinks he and I should work it out. I love him, butI am still afraid he won't be able to deal with the inevitable hardships thatcome with a relationship. I'm confused because the people I trust the most areall disagreeing.--E.The person who says everyone deserves a second chance has never met the guy whodumped his rape-victim-girlfriend by e-mail.Still, I won't rule out that these were exceptional circumstances because Iwasn't there and didn't hear what you said to him. These people you trustweren't there, either, except one: You. You decided to give him a secondchance--and also to remain open to the possibility that he might not be asstrong as he should be, and that the relationship might not work. Now do themath: On your own, you made a decision that incorporates what your friends saidAND what your therapist said AND what your mom said. Give yourself some credit.You understand all the possible implications of his actions, and now you'reletting time sort them out. Seems to me you've got things under control--which,even for someone who hasn't been through what you have, is pretty impressivestuff.Hi Carolyn:Girlfriend has an important work event to attend--significant others are invitedand encouraged to come. On the same night, a dear friend of Boyfriend is havinga birthday party. On a boat. So there's no option to go to the work thing thenthe party. HELP!--Emotional WringerYour emotions are wrung out from that? Life is long--maybe you should paceyourself.If you've already RSVP'd as a couple to one of them, that's the one you bothattend. Otherwise, Girlfriend goes to work party, Boyfriend goes to boat party,and both pat themselves on the back for demonstrating their ability to leave thehouse without handcuffs. (What you wear in the privacy of your home, of course,is your business.)The only thing worth fretting about here is that you didn't immediately see thisas a slam-dunk, get-in-on-the-IPO no-brainer. Beware of static cling.Dear Carolyn:I left a job last winter working aboard a yacht because I did not get along witha male crew member who did not respect my space. He keeps sending me e-mails andI don't know how to get him to stop. I contacted my former boss a couple ofmonths ago to ask him to intervene, but this was without success. Do I continueto delete the e-mails (and fume that he has the audacity to contact me), tellhim off or resort to violence? The latter is obviously a fantasy, but I becomeangry every time I have to deal with this.--S.And that's the point: He gets his jollies every time you do, and bonus jollieswhen you run to the boss.If you're afraid of this guy, trust your intuition and tell the policeimmediately. Have you ever thought about why some people give us the creeps?There's usually a pretty good reason for it.Otherwise, I don't see why you "have to" deal with this at all. Get a new e-mailaddress--but keep the old one, too, and let the freak keep using it. Then neversign on to it again. A friend can check it for important stuff. If an e-mailfalls in the forest, does it make a sound?Write to Tell Me About It, Style Plus, 1150 15th St. NW, Washington, D.C. 20071or tellme@washpost.com, and join Carolyn's live discussion at noon Fridays or 3p.m. Mondays at washingtonpost.com/liveonline