The State Department declined yesterday to take a position on remarks last weekby Pakistan's  president, Gen. Pervez Musharraf, suggesting that claiming rapein his country was seen as a route to riches, but it said world leaders shoulddenounce violence against women."We encourage leaders around the world to speak out about the fact that violenceagainst women is unacceptable," said Sean McCormack, the State Departmentspokesman.Musharraf told The Washington Post last week that claiming rape had become "amoneymaking concern" in Pakistan. "A lot of people say if you want to go abroadand get a visa for Canada or citizenship and be a millionaire, get yourselfraped," he said. He later denied making the comments.Musharraf's remarks have stirred outrage in Pakistan. Hundreds of womendemonstrated outside parliament Thursday in Islamabad demanding an apology.Paul Martin, the Canadian prime minister, also protested the comments when hemet with Musharraf last week at the United Nations.McCormack, noting that Musharraf has denied making the remarks, said, "I'm nothere to play judge about whether or not he was quoted accurately."But the spokesman added, "Let me just state very clearly that the United Statesgovernment speaks out very clearly that violence against women wherever it mayoccur is unacceptable. And around the world, where this is a problem, we make apoint of speaking out against it."Faced with the protests over his remarks that rape claims had become a way tomake money, Musharraf subsequently told a women's group that he had beenmisquoted."These are not my words, and I would go to the extent of saying I am not sosilly and stupid to make comments of this sort," he said during his visit  toattend the U.N. General Assembly. He  told CNN that the remarks were made bysomeone else in his presence.The Post has posted an audio link to that section of the interview on www.washingtonpost.com. The link includes the full nine-minute discussion withMusharraf on the problem of rape in his country.In the interview, Musharraf referred to the case of Mukhtar Mai, an illiterate33-year-old-woman who attracted worldwide attention after she spoke publiclyabout having been gang-raped on the orders of a village council in 2002. Mai wonsympathy and government support after she demanded that the men be prosecuted.The Pakistani government  blocked her from traveling to the United States topublicize the case.Musharraf said in the Sept. 12 interview in New York that Mai was now free totravel. He said she had come under the sway of organizations determined to harmthe image of Pakistan, which he said should not be singled out "when the curse[of rape] is everywhere in the world."