The U.S. Postal Service lost billions of dollars in revenue during the lastfiscal year as  the volume of mail plunged. Lawmakers may one day soon considercutting mail delivery to five days a week. They also may need to sort out howthe Postal Service pays for the benefits of current and future retirees.But most customers only care about one thing: The fate of their neighborhoodpost office.On Friday the Postal Service must turn over an updated list to the PostalRegulatory Commission of sites still being considered for closure orconsolidation.Despite the concern and confusion generated by the drawn-out process, PostmasterGeneral John E. Potter believes customers should extend their concern."This is part of the problem when it comes to discussing the Postal Service," hetold a lunchtime crowd at the National Press Club in Washington. "Because herewe are talking about a $5 billion ongoing deficit and we're all wrapped up in anissue that's probably worth on the order of $20 million to $100 million atbest."Closures account for a small piece of Potter's grand plans to remake the U.S.mail system. He's advocated for reducing mail delivery to five days, for asmaller workforce and a greener fleet of vehicles -- and maybe, just maybe, thechance to sell something other than stamps."Given the changing use of the mail by the American public -- we're not faultinganyone -- and given what's going on with the economy, we need more flexibilityto manage this place so that we can get into the black," Potter said.He's not involved in the details of possible closures, but Potter said it'sunlikely any facility will close before January. He's delegated the other dirtydetails to district managers and other Washington-based officials."Our folks have reached out to communities and will continue to do that, butkeep in mind that we're facing a significant gap going forward of $5 billion. Sopeople cannot expect business as usual and that we will be able to fundeverything that we currently do," he said.Potter wants Americans to start talking about how the Postal Service will existinto the next decade and beyond. He wants a national conversation amonglawmakers, the mailing industry, consumers and everyone else. Americans willhave to consider mail volume, the frequency of delivery and the cost, he said.The Postal Service operates more retail outlets than Starbucks, Wal-Mart andMcDonald's combined, Potter said."And we can only sell stamps," he lamented. "I think we're going to have torationalize. It doesn't take a genius to figure out that we're not going to sellthe same number of stamps going forward."So if Congress told him next week that he could try selling just one service orproduct, what would it be?"I'd be a bank," he said, but later admitted that  "that's not going to happen."Why not?"Politics," he said.Fumbling on FingerprintsThe Census Bureau hired more than 162,000 temporary workers this year to work onpreparations for the 2010 decennial census. The agency had to fingerprint eachworker for a mandatory FBI criminal background check. But the Census Bureaufailed to get readable prints for at least a fifth of those temporary hires,according to a Government Accountability report released this week.Poorly trained Census employees improperly printed their temporary colleaguesand the FBI advised the agency to conduct background checks based solely on anapplicant's name, the report said."It is possible that more than 200 people with unclassifiable prints haddisqualifying criminal records but still worked, and had contact with the publicduring address canvassing," the GAO estimated.Workers who do address canvassing go street-by-street to make sure thataddresses do indeed exist.Of the temporary hires that did get printed, approximately 1 percent hadcriminal records, the GAO said. Of those, 750 were fired, because they hadcommitted more serious crimes such as rape, manslaughter and child abuse.The Census Bureau said it will retrain employees to address the GAO's concerns.It has been working on its fingerprint background checks, spokesman StephenBuckner said. When asked, Buckner was unaware of any incidences of criminalactivity committed by the temporary employees. This was the first time theCensus Bureau has fingerprinted its temporary workers.What of the DCIPS?Your (substitute) Diarist received several anxious queries from readersregarding the fate of the Defense Civilian Intelligence Personnel System, thepay-for-performance system used by some defense and intelligence personnel.Concerned readers wanted to know if their version of the National SecurityPersonnel System also got repealed in the compromise version of the DefenseDepartment authorization bill announced Wednesday.Turns out the compromise suspends DCIPS for one year pending a congressionalreview. This means current employees stay in the system, but nobody else cantransition into it. The National Geospatial-Intelligence Agency, which has usedDCIPS longer than any other agency, is exempt from the suspension.Joe Davidson is away. He will resume writing this column when he returns. Directyour Diary-themed tips, queries, rants and concerns to federaldiary@washpost.comRead Ed O'Keefe's blog, the Federal Eye, at http://www.washingtonpost.com/federaleye.