Hollywood is reportedly at work on a remake of the 1991 film "Don't Tell Mom theBabysitter's Dead." This, however, is unnecessary, because a remake is alreadyplaying. It's called the Republican presidential primary.In the original, a mom leaves her kids with a babysitter for three months, butafter the babysitter dies of a heart attack, the children fend for themselvesfor the summer.The GOP nominating contest so far follows a very similar plot. With thegrown-ups (played by Jeb Bush and Mitch Daniels) out of town, the field has beenleft in the custody of caretakers (played by Mitt Romney, Donald Trump and NewtGingrich). When even the babysitters fail to show up at the first debate of theseason, the juveniles run the thing themselves.At Thursday night's debate in South Carolina, libertarian Rep. Ron Paulexplained why heroin and prostitution should be legal and why the Department ofHomeland Security should be eliminated.Retired pizza executive Herman Cain explained why the Internal Revenue Serviceshould be abolished and why people who would allow abortion in cases of rape andincest are "pro-choice."Former New Mexico governor Gary Johnson argued for eliminating the minimum wageand corporate taxes and for cutting Medicare nearly in half.Former Pennsylvania senator Rick Santorum attempted to explain why he criticized"radical feminism" for pushing women into the workforce and why he said Islamwas "stuck in the seventh century."Former Minnesota governor Tim Pawlenty declared the United Nations a "patheticorganization."On a day when President Obama placed a wreath at Ground Zero, his would-bepresidential opponents looked comparatively childish. Half an hour into thedebate, Johnson interrupted moderator Chris Wallace. "It's, like, nine questionsfor all these guys and none for me," he protested.If there's any good news for the Republican Party to come out of the firstpresidential debate, it's that the Associated Press and Reuters didn't cover it.In the absence of adults, the first presidential debate favored the noisiest andthe least likely to win. Cain, a man who wants to return to the gold standard,had the most successful line of the night when he defended his inexperience."I ask people, 'Most of the people in elective office in Washington, D.C., theyhave held public office before. How's that working for you?' " the formerGodfather's Pizza boss said. "We have a mess!"GOP pollster Frank Luntz, doing a focus group for debate-sponsor Fox News,reported that he had seen a massive shift in voter sentiment toward the man fromGodfather's Pizza (motto: "A pizza you can't refuse"). "This is unprecedented!"Luntz said of the candidate in the godfather-style double-breasted suit.Contrast that with Pawlenty, arguably the only one of the five men on stage whohas a chance of winning the nomination. He elicited boos from the crowd when hetried to explain his shift away from a cap on greenhouse-gas emissions. "I waswrong. It was a mistake and I'm sorry," he pleaded.Pawlenty's explanation: "If anybody is perfect, come on up here and stand bythis podium, because we would like that person to be running for president."At this point, the Republicans would settle for somebody well short of perfect.There remains a hope that a white knight will arrive to rescue Republicanprimary voters from this lackluster field, but there is growing concern amongparty elders that such a person may not exist.There's Romney, but he's the paternity-denying father of Obamacare. There'sTrump, but he's the midwife of the birther campaign. Gingrich has been rejectedby his peers and married three times.Could it be that Herman Cain really is the best they've got?There certainly is something intriguing about him. Consider, for example, hisAfghanistan plan: He doesn't have one."No," Cain admitted when asked if he had a policy. He explained that "at thispoint, I don't know all of the facts."In their opposition to Obama, the five men agreed. What they couldn't agree onwas a consistent counter-argument. Cain defended his claim that Obama's actionon gay marriage is "bordering on treason." Paul defended his proposed end to allforeign aid, including Israel's, saying it's not as if "every Jew in thiscountry believes we ought to have the policy we have."Late in the debate, Santorum was asked about a suggestion by one of the missinggrown-ups, Daniels, that Republicans should call a "truce" on social issues."Anybody that would suggest that we call a truce on the moral issues doesn'tunderstand what America is all about," Santorum inveighed.We'll just have to let the kids fight it out on the playground.http://live.washingtonpost.com/dana-milbank-live-0506.htmldanamilbank@washpost.com