IF EVER THERE was a case that illustrated why electing judges is a bad idea, itis the one out of West Virginia that the U.S. Supreme Court is scheduled to hearthis morning.In 2002, Hugh Caperton and his business partners won a $50 million judgmentagainst the A.T. Massey Coal Co. The chief executive of Massey, Don L.Blankenship, was outraged, and he vowed to appeal to the West Virginia SupremeCourt of Appeals. But before the appeal was filed, Mr. Blankenship led acampaign to defeat a sitting West Virginia justice who he believed was unfair tobusiness interests and too soft on crime; one ad campaign Mr. Blankenship helpedto fund accused the sitting judge of freeing a child molester. Mr. Blankenshipalso directly donated or helped raise money for Brent Benjamin, who was runningto unseat the incumbent judge. In total, Mr. Blankenship was responsible forsome $3 million that found its way into the judicial race.Mr. Benjamin prevailed and thus wound up as one of five justices hearingMassey's $50 million appeal. He was part of the 3-2 majority that overturned theverdict.The U.S. Supreme Court is not being asked to judge the propriety of statejudicial elections, although the sometimes seedy, often controversial nature ofsuch events serves as the backdrop. The question before the justices is whetherMr. Caperton's rights to due process under the 14th Amendment were violated byJustice Benjamin's decision not  to step aside from the Massey case.Lawyers for Massey argue that Justice Benjamin had no obligation to recusehimself because he was not shown to have a real conflict or suffer from actualbias. They also note that the Supreme Court has never before requireddisqualification because of campaign spending.In fact, the Supreme Court has previously ruled that recusal is required only ifa judge is faced with presiding over a case in which he or she has a financialinterest or, more rarely, in certain contempt proceedings that arise from alitigant's verbal assaults on that judge. Yet lawyers for Mr. Caperton arguethat due process is also violated when a judge presides over the case of alitigant who played a pivotal role in getting that judge elected, thus creatingan appearance or "probability of bias."As a matter of law, this is a more difficult case than it may appear. If thecourt rules that Mr. Caperton's rights were violated, it may soon find itself ina thicket of related cases involving possible conflicts of interest by judges.Maybe $3 million is obviously enough to create the appearance of a conflict, butwhat about $100,000? In an amicus brief, the Conference of Chief Justicessuggested that the total sum of money and timing, among other factors, should beconsidered in determining recusals. That approach makes sense, but it would beonly the beginning of the debate.As a matter of practice, this is a lot easier. States should consider barringjudges from considering cases involving litigants or lawyers who were directlyor indirectly responsible for campaign contributions beyond a certain limit.More fundamental, states should consider abolishing judicial elections in favorof an appointment system that distances jurists from politics and fundraising.Do you have a different view of this issue? Debate a member of the editorialboard today at www.washingtonpost.com/opinions.