In March, county officials convened a task force on domestic violence. Theywere concerned about procedures and practices in county government in the wakeof the March 11 death of Ernestine Dyson, 32, of Oxon Hill, who was killed lessthan 24 hours after her estranged husband, Tyrone Dyson, who had a long historyof alleged violence against women, had promised in court to leave her alone.Tyrone Dyson, 32, then killed himself.Excerpts of a recent report by the task force appear here. The entire report,made available to The Post electronically by the office of State's AttorneyGlenn Ivey, a task force member, can be read at www.washingtonpost.com/princegeorges.. . . The task force was convened to develop an immediate plan of action toaddress domestic violence issues throughout county government. The final reportwas tentatively scheduled for completion by May 1, 2003. . . .Domestic violence is a major social problem and a prevalent crime that crossesage, gender, ethnic, economic, educational, religious and social lines. It iscommonly understood as assaultive behavior that usually involves adults who arein an intimate, sexual and cohabiting relationship.However, because it is a crime encompassing all domestic relationships, manyprefer the term "family violence." Referred to as the "Cycle of Violence,"domestic violence usually consists of repeated patterns of abusive behaviors.According to legal experts, domestic violence is the least reported crime in theUnited States. Often, based upon cultural, religious or traditional beliefs,many victims feel their spouse or partner has the right to abuse them. They maybelieve they must live with violence as an accepted way of family life. Othersfeel shame and guilt. Many victims are unaware of the services and protectionavailable to them. No one deserves to be abused, and the first step to resolvingan abusive relationship is to recognize that such violence is unacceptablebehavior.This responsibility ultimately rests, not with the victim, but with society. Ifwe are complacent about domestic violence and if we consider it someone else'sproblem, then we are tolerating domestic violence and promoting the "code ofsilence." Isolation within the "code of silence" allows domestic violence tothrive.The Department of Justice estimates that approximately 25 percent of domesticviolence assaults are actually reported to the police. Individual surveysgenerally produce higher estimates of violence than official records, but theyare also assumed to underestimate the actual extent of domestic violence.Reporting does not assure prosecution. A domestic violence victim may experiencefive or more incidents before deciding to leave or pursue prosecution withoutrecanting or asserting marital privilege (Maryland law allows one instance ofnot testifying against a spouse). Ending an abusive relationship is verydifficult. Most victims just want the abuse to stop.Often referred to as "intimate violence," domestic violence or spousal abuse isdefined as physically or emotionally harmful acts between spouses or otherindividuals in intimate relationships. In legal terms, it includes violencebetween spouses, former spouses, persons with a child in common, and same sexpartners. Protection is extended to blood relatives and vulnerable adults.Violence is often pervasive in dating relationships, but does not qualify as"domestic" for services like protective orders. It is covered however, under thePeace Order statute.Abuse may include verbal or emotional abuse, denial of access to resources ormoney, restraint of normal activities (including isolation from friends orfamily), sexual coercion or assault, threats to kill or harm, and physicalintimidation or attacks. In extreme cases, particularly if no interventionoccurs, domestic violence can result in the death of either partner. Murder byintimates accounts for about 9 percent of all homicides in the United Stateseach year. Victim homicides are most often the result of escalating violence,with the lethality rate increasing by 75 percent when a victim attempts to leavean abusive situation. But it is not unusual for male domestic homicides to bethe result of a domestic violence victim fighting back in self-defense or indefense of her children.Experts agree that domestic violence is a widespread problem whose actual extentis difficult to measure. In Prince George's County, as on the state and nationallevel, the primary method of determining domestic violence rates is the use ofavailable statistics from the various responding agencies. Again, while we mustrely upon these statistics, we cannot accept them as conclusive due tounderreporting by both males and females. Males, in fact, may be even morereluctant than females to report, although criminal charges for incidents ofmale abuse in Prince George's County have increased to nearly 20 percent. Ifevery incident of abuse within the county were reported, the actual numberswould be much greater.Additionally, the use of different definitions and different modes of reportingamong agencies can affect the resulting statistics.For the period of January to June of 2002, using the special study code 29 forspousal abuse, the Prince George's County Police Department Technical ServicesDivision reports that officers responded to 864 incidents. The Office of theState's Attorney's Domestic Violence Unit received 4,126 charging documents in2002 and 901 from December 31, 2002 through March 2003. One hundred andtwenty-one interim protective orders (24/7 order) were issued by the Office ofthe Court Commissioner for the period ending January 23, 2003. The Office of theAdministrative Clerk for District Court reports 4,136 domestic violence filingsfor Fiscal Year 2002, 367 for January 2003 and 294 for February 2003. The Officeof the Sheriff reports an increase in service from 650 protective orders permonth since the inception of the 24/7 law, and currently project service of11,000 orders this year.For the period of July 1, 2001 to June 30, 2002 the Maryland Network AgainstDomestic Violence reports four Prince George's County deaths resulting fromdomestic violence homicide. However, statistics for that period were difficultto verify and we suspect that number to be incorrect and likely higher.In Prince George's County as in most counties within the state, we have provided"Pro-Prosecution" training for law enforcement, emergency dispatchers,prosecutors, commissioners, court clerks, victim advocates and victim/witnesscoordinators. This training includes domestic violence dynamics, investigationand prosecution, victim resources, full faith and credit (honoring of protectiveorders across state lines) and this year will be expanded to include stalkingand strangulation.The courts obtain ongoing training each year with specific segments assigned todomestic violence including domestic violence dynamics. They are also briefed bythe Family Violence Council on batterer's counseling including the differencebetween "anger management" and "intervention." . . .The county offers shelter and counseling (residential and non-residential;victim, offender, and child) through the Family Crisis Center (FCC). As ourprimary domestic violence shelter, FCC provides 17 beds and also serves as asupervised visitation center. Limited transitional housing is available throughCommunity Ministries. The House of Ruth provides walk-in legal clinics in bothUpper Marlboro and Hyattsville Courthouses, counseling through the BaxterCenter, and in 2002, initiated divorce and custody legal services.Court-mandated offender counseling is assigned to both FCC (battererintervention) and Compassion Power (anger management), based upon offenderreview and appropriate treatment determination. However we interpret thisinformation, the fact remains that the need is greater than available resources.We have made substantial progress over the last 5 years, but many issues remainto be addressed and many services to be expanded.Prevention is based upon proactive rather than reactive initiatives, assistingthe victim and holding the abuser accountable. Informational and educationaloutreach is fundamental to successful prevention. Educating victims and thecommunity about rights, resources, the criminal justice system, and again, thedynamics of domestic violence is essential.We would like to promise every victim that we could protect him or herunconditionally. That, of course, is impossible, but the system in PrinceGeorge's County has much to offer: the emergency interim protective order (the24/7 bill available at 3 commissioner locations 24 hours per day); the temporaryprotective order; the protective order; counseling; shelter; legal services;court accompaniment and court system information. . . .The public is beginning to recognize that the victim is not to blame, and tounderstand that the question is not "Why doesn't she just leave?" but "Why doeshe batter?" The victim may always feel fear, shame, guilt, and responsibility.The offender may still commit violent offenses and attempt to manipulate thesystem. Our task is to improve service in the areas of education, outreach,training and legislation in order to promote the most comprehensive servicepossible.Domestic violence can be addressed through a collaborative effort from allmembers on the Prince George's County Domestic Violence Coordinating Council.Prince George's County has a well-established Domestic Violence CoordinatingCouncil, which has been in existence over 10 years. Members include: currentchair, District Court Judge Patrice Lewis; Office of the State's Attorney;Office of the Sheriff; Prince George's County Police Department; Parole andProbation; Mental Hygiene Office of the Court; Child Protective Services; SexualAssault Center; Juvenile Justice; Family Crisis Center (shelter and counseling);House of Ruth (legal advocacy); Compassion Power (batterer's counseling); Zonta(professional women's volunteer association); the Human Relations Commission,Community Ministries, and Andrews Air Force Base Family Advocacy Unit. Thiscouncil, as a collaborative unit, assists with problems placed before it as wellas implementing new initiatives and community outreach. Specific individualsalso serve as liaisons to the Maryland Network Against Domestic Violence and theState Family Violence Council. . . .As a result of a tragic domestic violence incident on March 11, 2003 . . .Prince George's County Government launched a comprehensive review of internalpolicies and procedures to determine where such processes and procedures can befurther strengthened to prevent this event from ever occurring in the future. .. .Each county organization and/or agency that participated on this task force waschallenged to examine the people, processes and technology opportunities thatcould be used to bring increased safety to domestic violence victims in PrinceGeorge's County. Experts agree that domestic violence is a widespread problemthat cannot be easily quantified due to many incidents that are not reported.Thus, the task force scope also included ways of ensuring that appropriateinformation is available to both those victims who have reported an incident andthose who have not.As a result of the task force review, several policies, procedures, andpractices have been either modified, updated, or changed to reflect a moreproactive and sensitive approach to domestic violence concerns in PrinceGeorge's County. These updates have been made without negative impact toexisting programs and policies in other service areas. A summary of the actionsto be undertaken by county agencies are outlined as follows:Office of the State's Attorney* Established Automated Domestic Violence Log database within the DomesticViolence Unit.* Revised existing referral sheets to include "relationship" to provide moreimmediate identification.* Plan to establish two dedicated domestic violence courtrooms (Upper Marlboroand Hyattsville).* Re-established vertical prosecution policy for Sex Abuse Unit to providecomprehensive service and to increase victim trust.* Expanded the Domestic Violence Unit and place a senior attorney in this unit.* Placed a senior attorney in bond hearing position to ensure comprehensiveaccess to defendant's history and reduce inappropriate releases.* Future hiring of domestic violence investigators to provide specializedinvestigation services.* Consult with the Maryland Network Against Domestic Violence to provideadditional pro-prosecution and lethality assessment training.* Partnering with the Sexual Assault Center to provide multidisciplinary sexualassault training.Office of the Sheriff* Reassigned six additional Deputy Sheriffs to the Domestic Violence Unit.* Effective December 2003, seven additional deputies will be reassigned to theDomestic Violence Unit.* Collaborating with the District Court Commissioners Office to prioritize allDomestic Violence related cases.* Provide internal and external training and coordinate outreach efforts withinthe community.Police Department* Coordinate with Public Safety Communications to redefine general orders toassign domestic calls to Priority One (urgent). Officers from adjacent sectionwill respond to domestic violence calls.Corrections Department* Implemented a Domestic Violence Alert System as part of the new ComputerCorrectional Information Management System. This system will alert a number ofcriminal justice agencies of a domestic violence offender.* Designated a Domestic Violence Coordinator for the department.Public Safety Communications* Provide Police Department Stress Response training for all employees.* Incorporate Crisis Communication skills training into the domestic violenceoverview during new employee training classes.* Provide in-service refresher training on handling domestic violence calls forall employees.* Work with the Police Department to change "Domestic Violence" calls to"Priority One" calls and implement "revised" dispatch procedures.Fire/Emergency Medical Services Department* Implement a policy that if domestic violence is suspected, first responderswill document the incident on an appropriate form and forward form to theappropriate agencies for review and disposition.* Fire and EMS staff will receive domestic violence awareness training.Office of Information Technology and Communications* Coordinate with the Maryland Department of Public Safety and CorrectionalServices to provide training sessions and briefings on Statewide, new strategicinitiatives and technologies.* Work with the county agencies to provide additional information and links onthe website to ensure domestic violence information.* Perform semi-annual review of Public Safety systems to ensure System Access,integration, and training including all agencies with a "need to know."Department of Family Services* Will provide funding to the Family Crisis Center to support program componentsof:* Safe Passage Shelter* Family Violence Intervention Clinic* 24-Hour Crisis Intervention Hotline* Children and Youth Programs* Family Support Program* Volunteer Support* Will provide information and training on the Crisis Response System to publicsafety personnel and the general public.With county agency input, this task force has been cognizant of the fact thatcommunity education and outreach concerning domestic violence is an importantgoal. The task force recommends . . . that coordinated ongoing countywideeducational and informational forums be conducted throughout Prince George'sCounty on domestic violence. These forums will work collaboratively withcommunity organizations, business community, faith community and communityleaders to educate residents on domestic violence. . . .1. Discussions are underway with representatives from the Violence Against WomenAct Office to provide "Grants To Encourage Arrest Policies" federal funding.This funding would support new initiatives and expansion of existing servicesincluding support for law enforcement agency and victim services expansion. . ..2. A collaborative grant partnership initiative is being explored between thetask force and the Maryland Network Against Domestic Violence to further augmenttraining funds.Michael A. Jackson, sheriff and task force co-chair; Barry L. Stanton, directorof Department of Corrections and task force co-chair; Glenn F. Ivey, state'sattorney, Office of the State's Attorney; Dr. James Dula, deputy chiefadministrative officer, Health and Human Services; Melvin C. High, chief of thePolice Department; Ronald D. Blackwell, chief of the Fire/EMS Department; DavidS. Whitacre, county attorney, Office of Law; Terri N. Ware, director, Office ofInformation Technology and Communications; Charlynn F. Flaherty, associatedirector, Department of Public Safety Communications; Kimberly Ellison-Taylor,deputy director, Office of Information Technology and Communications; PatriciaW. Smoot, deputy state's attorney, Office of the State's Attorney; Norma J.Harley, director, Domestic Violence Program, Office of the State's Attorney;Theresa M. Grant, division director, Department of Family Services; Roderick E.Missouri, supervisor, Department of Family Services; Lt. Col. Louis Oertly,Sheriff's Office; Wayne McBride, Department of Public Safety Communications;James P. Keary, director, Office of Communications, Office of the CountyExecutive; Walter Dozier, public information officer, Office of the CountyExecutive; James W. Hubbard, domestic violence coordinator, Department ofCorrections; W. Stephan Simmons, chief of population management, Department ofCorrections; Dawn Walter, assistant chief of population management, Departmentof Corrections; Calvin Scott, chaplain, Department of Corrections.