How do you get a county named after you? Well, it helps if you're a noble.That's what I discovered when I looked into where our local names came from. Idiscovered a lot of other things, too.Anne Arundel CountyLike the vast majority of British nobles who gave their name to U.S. counties,Lady Anne Arundell (pronounced "aaron-dale," by the way) never set foot inAmerica. But when you have a vast continent to name, you can't set yourstandards too high.Anne was only 13 years old when she married Cecil Calvert, the second LordBaltimore, who founded the colony of Maryland. He never visited Maryland,either, but the pair of them must have taken an interest in their namesaketerritories. A ceiling in their home in England was decorated with plasterlikenesses of the Ark and the Dove, the ships that brought the first coloniststo Maryland's shores.Only three of her nine children survived to adulthood. Anne died in 1649 at age34. The next year, the first General Assembly voted to name the county afterher.It's unclear what happened to the last "l" in her name. It probably got lostsomewhere around Route 50.Montgomery CountyKilled in a snowstorm on New Year's Eve 1775, while leading an assault onBritish-held Quebec, the Irish-born Richard Montgomery became the country'sfirst national hero. At least 18 U.S. counties and towns are named for him.Prince George's CountyAn overweight, alcoholic asthmatic who never shed his Scandinavian accent,Prince George of Denmark didn't make much of an impression on those who met him.But he was extremely loyal to his wife, Britain's Queen Anne. "I am hermajesty's subject," he once said modestly.Howard CountyLt. Col. John Eager Howard was the son of a wealthy Baltimore County planter whorose through the ranks of the Continental Army. At the Battle of Cowpens inSouth Carolina in 1781, he ordered his men to make a bayonet charge that routedthe enemy. His bravery earned Howard a silver medal from Congress. He went on toserve as a delegate to the Continental Congress, governor of Maryland and U.S.senator.Frederick CountyWhat can you say about a man accused of having his own harem, and who was thecentral character in a notorious London rape case? Why, you can say thatFrederick County is named after him. Frederick Calvert was the sixth and, as itturned out, last Lord Baltimore. In 1768, he was accused of "feloniouslyravishing" a milliner named Sarah Woodcock, after luring her to his Epsom estatewith the promise of work. Amazingly, Frederick was acquitted.Calvert CountyThe Sopranos have their waste disposal business. The Calverts had theircolony-running business. George Calvert, the first Lord Baltimore (and aCatholic to boot), was the first of the clan to snag a piece of the New World,when he was granted permission to start a colony by the British crown. He diedbefore seeing the colony established in Maryland.Charles CountyCharles, the third Lord Baltimore, was the first to have the pleasure ofactually visiting Maryland. He arrived in 1661 at the age of 24. Charles busiedhimself with his colony's infrastructure -- overseeing the construction ofroads, storage facilities for gunpowder and the like. It was under his watchthat slavery was made legal.St. Mary's CountyWe can't say for sure whom this county is named after. Since Maryland began as acolony friendly to Catholics, most experts think it was named after the motherof Jesus. Other sources suggest it was named after Queen Mary I.Washington, D.C.That's an easy one. The capital is named after our first president, GeorgeWashington, a onetime surveyor, a successful planter, a slave owner and theyoung nation's consummate soldier/politician. As for the "District of Columbia"portion, that's named after the Italian who "discovered" the New World:Christopher Columbus, who, it is said, sunburned easily.Julia Feldmeier helped research this essay. "John Kelly's Washington" appearsSunday through Thursday in the Metro Section. To learn about whom otherWashington area counties are named for, visit http://www.washingtonpost.com.