Aaron Thomas was scary.He jumped out from behind bushes and lurked in dark corners. Women were objects,not people, to this serial rapist, who is scheduled to plead guilty Tuesday torape and abduction charges in Prince William County. He said so himself, when hespoke with The Washington Post.But you know what's scarier? Guys like him aren't the majority of America'srapists.Predators like Thomas - who became known as the East Coast Rapist after morethan a dozen attacks since the 1990s in the Washington area and New England -are the minority.According to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, only 13.8 percentof such attacks are by a complete stranger. More likely to rape you is a friend,a date or a relative, statistics show.There is a sexual assault in this country every two minutes. That means morethan 200,000 a year, according to the D.C.-based Rape Abuse and Incest NationalNetwork (RAINN).But Thomas isn't a total anomaly. That repulsive, cruel inner core that makeshim so cinematically frightening - he hurt other kids, tortured animals and seta girl's hair on fire - is the same stuff that turns the seemingly nice guysinto serial attackers, too.Remember when we first started talking about date rape and acquaintance rape?The widespread assumption was that these attackers were otherwise nice guys whogot a little too drunk and carried things a bit too far. They didn't understandthat just because you're making out in the dorm room doesn't mean it's an openinvitation to go all the way, right?So we thought that maybe a "No means no" campaign would stop date rapes fromhappening.Well, no, actually.Because most of the people who were doing the raping - acquaintances, friends,dates, family members - knew  their victims meant "no," and that was part of theallure of their crime.Some of the most solid evidence of that has been developed by David Lisak indecades of work. The psychology professor at the University of Massachusetts atBoston has surveyed about 2,000 college-age males, about 120 of whom basicallyadmitted to rape and averaged about six rapes each."We've come to understand, it's not the innocent guy who has one beer too manyand does something foolish," said Scott Berkowitz, the president and founder ofRAINN. "These are criminals who plan out how they are going to select theirvictims, how they are going to do it."The best example of that caused a furor this summer, when a thread on Redditasked to hear stories from "the other side of the story" on sexual assault.One Redditor wrote about his tactics. He prefaced it by telling everyone he's areally nice guy, a community activist, volunteer, liked by all and so forth."I am a post-college aged male who raped several girls through use of coercion,alcohol, and other tactics over a course of 3 years," he explained. He got tiredof "all the sluts and sorority girls" who threw themselves at gorgeous him, sohe began getting his thrills by being a predator. He was very calculating,looking for small-statured and modest girls and going on at least one veryproper, genteel date.Then he would invite them to his place and rape them.He said that "the great nights were the ones who squirmed, ones who didn't wantto give in.""I'd have to shush them down, and try to work on them slowly enough so theydidn't know what was going on until it was pretty much already happening," theman wrote."To be honest, even remembering it now, the squirming always made it better,they didn't want it to happen, but they couldn't do anything about it," he said.This man, as well as the men who admitted to rape in the surveys, didn't believethey were actually rapists. And that's just like Thomas, who called it "the Rword" when he talked to The Post's Josh White about his crimes.Thomas used a fake gun to march three trick-or-treaters into the woods to attackthem. He admitted that he started by attacking prostitutes, assuming theywouldn't report him. And still, he did not consider himself a rapist.Listen to this line from the anonymous Reddit rapist: "I didn't know how tostop, and just when I thought maybe I could, I'd find myself back in my pattern,back on the hunt."That was a sentiment echoed over the phone from the Prince William County jail,where the East Coast Rapist is being held: "I don't know why I couldn't juststop."The Reddit rapist is a self-described college graduate, community volunteer,good-looking husband and successful businessman. The East Coast Rapist is aconvicted felon, has been homeless, and was violent and utterly impressed withhis own ability to keep getting away with it.Thomas faces the possibility of several life terms in prison.The Reddit rapist has never had to answer for his actions. He had one thing tosay before he left the conversation this summer: "Let me leave you with thismessage, you never know who someone truly is, so be careful."The RAINN hotline is 800-656-HOPE.dvorakp@washpost.comTwitter: @petuladTo read previous columns, go to washingtonpost.com/dvorak.