Kathy Wone mourned. She went to grief counseling once a week and tried hard toheal. She went back to work part time. She tried to see friends.But 26 months after Robert Wonewas stabbed to death inside his friends'million-dollar townhouse near Dupont Circle, the killing became a tabloidsensation, and Kathy Wone said she had to start mourning all over again.Police charged the three friends -  who were involved in a sexual relationshipwith one another - with conspiracy and tampering with the crime scene to concealthe identity of the killer.  Fourteen pages of court documents detailed whatprosecutors think happened in the upstairs bedroom where Wone was killed.Robert Wone, 32, was probably drugged into a paralytic-like state and sexuallyassaulted, the documents said. There was no sign of a struggle. Nothing wasstolen. And  police found sadomasochistic sex toys and machines in the eleganthouse."It was a huge shock for me. It pushed me way back. I felt like Robert had beenkilled all over again," Kathy Wone, now 40, said Wednesday in her firstextensive interview since her husband was slain Aug. 2, 2006.Wone spoke on the day that she settled her wrongful death lawsuit against thethree men: Joseph Price, 40, Victor J. Zaborsky, 45, and Dylan Ward, 40.  Price,Zaborsky and Ward denied any involvement in the killing, and they wereacquittedin the criminal case by a Superior Court judge. They said someone brokeinto the house and killed Wone. No one has been charged in the actual stabbing.Terms of the civil settlement were not disclosed Wednesday. But in a far-ranginginterview, Kathy Wone spoke about her husband, her life since he died and thethree men she sued."I am moving on. I want to spend the next 40 years of my life focusing on good,"said Wone, a petite, reserved woman with a slightly dimpled, shy smile.Wone said she looks forward to the next phase of her life, including a trip inOctober to Korea, where her mother was born.Moving ahead without her husband, she said, has been challenging. She stillsmiles when she talks about Robert Wone, whom she referred to as the "cute" and"nerdy" man she had known for more than four years, three of them as husband andwife."I miss Robert every day," said Wone, a lawyer at the American Health LawyersAssociation. "Not a day goes by when I don't think about him. It's tough goingthrough each day without the person you assumed you'd spend the rest of yourlife with. I'm getting better at it. It's lonely."Quest for accountabilityKathy Wone filed a $20 million wrongful death lawsuit against Price, Zaborskyand Ward just as the three men went on trial on the criminal charges.Wone's team said the suit was less about money than about trying to hold someoneaccountable for her husband's death.But in September, attorneys for the three men told the judge that their clientswould invoke their Fifth Amendment right not to testify. During subsequentdepositions, the men repeatedly declined to answer questions about the night ofthe killing, leaving Kathy Wone and her attorneys frustrated and resigned to thefact that they may never learn what happened."We couldn't pierce their assertion," said Wone attorney Benjamin J. Razi.Razi added: "We're much further along in the search for truth than we were backthen. Is it perfect justice? No, of course not."Razi said the settlement was "as much justice as possible."Wone says she was stunned by the men's decision to invoke the Fifth Amendment."They can rot from the inside out from all the secrets they chose to keep," shesaid. "That's their choice. I chose to move on."After the five-week conspiracy trial last summer, D.C. Superior Court  JudgeLynn Leibovitz acquitted the menhttp://www.washingtonpost.com/wp-dyn/content/article/2010/06/29/AR2010062904480.html. Prosecutors neverbrought up details of the alleged drugging  and sexual assault, because theywere not part of the charges.Price and Zaborksy have since sold the four-bedroom, 3.5-bath townhouse in the1500 block of Swann Street NW for about $1.5 million. They and Ward have movedto Florida. Before the trial, Price was an intellectual property lawyer with theArent Fox firm in Washington, Zaborsky worked for a Washington marketing firmand Ward worked as a massage therapist.Their attorneys - Robert J. Spagnoletti, Frank Daily and Craig D. Roswell - didnot return  calls Wednesday.Money from the settlement will be split between Robert Wone's estate and a lawclinic at the University of Pennsylvania Law School, his alma mater. The lawclinic will use the money to provide legal aid to inner-city residents.Five long yearsThe past five years have been difficult, Kathy Wone said. After she read thecharging documents, she went into a further depression. She spent five weeks inbed in the Oakton home she had shared with her husband.In the days after the men were arrested, Kathy Wone's body began to deteriorate,she said. Her  doctors told her that she had internalized the stress.Fortunately, her lupus, an autoimmune disorder that she had struggled with foryears, had not flared up. But her joints stiffened and became inflamed,especially in her knees and elbows. She had to walk with a cane. The left sideof her face and body went numb, a result of Bell's palsy.She no longer walks with a cane, and she displays few signs of past illness.Kathy Wone remembers how she felt during the trial. The three men, once friendswith her and her husband, ignored her and Robert Wone's family as they came andwent from the courtroom.  They never spoke. They never even glanced her way. "Wewere invisible to them," she said. "I sensed they had a lot of disdain for us."Robert Wone and Price had been good friends at the College of William and Mary.Robert Wone  had made plans to work late on the night he was killed because hewanted to meet the night staff at his new job as general counsel for Radio FreeAsia. Rather than make the 40-minute Metro and car trip home to Oakton, he hadarranged to spend the night at the Swann Street townhouse.During the trial, Kathy Wone said, she was most upset by onlookers who thoughtthat her husband went to Swann Street that night because he was living a doublelife and that he was killed during some type of sexual encounter gone wrong."It was an assumption by people who did not know Robert at all," she said. "Hewas an open book, and he and I had a very deep understanding and trust of eachother. People can continue to choose to believe what they want. I've moved on."alexanderk@washpost.comCORRECTION-DATE: August 6, 2011CORRECTION:An Aug. 4 Page One article about a settlement in the wrongful-death lawsuitfiled by the widow of slain lawyer Robert Wone incorrectly said that Kathy Wonewas giving her first extensive interview since her husband was slain Aug. 2,2006. She spoke to Washingtonian magazine in April 2010.