On an overcast Saturday morning, Darlene Turner gathered up her husband and twoteenage sons for a drive from their home in Brandywine to President Obama'sOrganizing for America campaign officein Fairfax, some 50 miles away. Along withdozens of other Prince George's County residents who made the trip, the Turnersreceived maps of the Fairfax neighborhoods where they would spend the dayknocking on doors and registering voters."When I received an e-mail alert from the Obama campaign saying Maryland wouldbe helping to get our neighbors in Virginia registered for November, I wanted toparticipate," said Turner, a security clearance investigator. "Republicans aretrying to turn back the clock on civil rights, women's rights, human rights, andI don't want my children to have to say that their mother and father just stoodby and let it happen."To hear Turner speak with such passion, you'd think that the presidentialelection was being held on Super Tuesday. There are 10 Republican primaries -including Virginia's - slated for that day. But Turner and other volunteers arelooking ahead with a time-compressing urgency, sensing that there is not amoment to lose in preparing for a contest billed as a battle for the future ofAmerica.The choices are clear, with the contrasting views of progressives andreactionaries on display in their own back yard. On Thursday, while MarylandGov. Martin O'Malley (D) was signing a bill allowing same-sex marriage in thestate, the Republican-led Virginia General Assembly was passing a bill requiringwomen to have ultrasounds before abortions.Only after thousands of women staged one of the largest protests in Virginiahistorydid the legislators drop a provision in the bill that specified invasive,transvaginal ultrasounds. They also relented and exempted victims of rape andincest from the mandatory procedure.The lawmakers are still considering a proposal that would require Virginiaresidents to show a photo ID before being allowed to vote - a measure that reeksof Jim Crow-era efforts to suppress the black vote."What had been enthusiasm among our volunteers has become determination," saidLeathia West, a Beltsville resident who volunteers as regional director for theObama campaign in Prince George's. "People are responding from the heart, fromthe gut, saying that the stakes are too high and that they have to getinvolved."During the weekend, Obama supporters held more than 100 campaign events inVirginia, many of them supported by volunteers from Maryland and the District.Since he announced his bid for reelection in April, the campaign has hostedabout 6,500 events in Virginia and made more than 370,000 calls to potentialvoters and volunteers.Although Obama won Virginia in 2008, the subsequent rise of ultraconservativetea party activists means that he will have to fight even harder to win thisimportant battleground state - with its 13 electoral votes - a second time.Former Massachusetts governor Mitt Romney, one of the main contenders for theRepublican nomination, has virtually no volunteers in the state. But he can makeup for the late start in part with his super -PAC-financed advertisingapparatus, infamously known as the "Death Star." As Romney demonstrated duringthe Florida primary, a barrage of well-placed negative ads doesn't take long toobliterate a rival.The Obama campaign will be relying heavily on volunteers such as Turner tocounter the threat. She doesn't campaign so much as chat with residents, helpingthem register to vote and sharing personal stories about issues that will bedebated before the election."I'm one of those women who had to take birth control pills because of a medicalissue," Turner told me. "I didn't grow up with a silver spoon in my mouth, so Ihad to go to a government clinic to get treatment and prescriptions. When I hearmen threatening to cut back on health services for women, attacking ourreproductive rights and even hurling personal insults, I am appalled."Her husband, Kelvin, manages a warehouse and sometimes complained about what hethought were unreasonable demands from labor unions - another issue in thecampaign."I came to see his point," Darlene Turner said. "But I used to be a socialworker, and I know from the people I've met what it's like to live at the mercyof callous employers, where you can't have an opinion or speak out withoutputting your job in jeopardy. And he came to see my point."The Turners had knocked on 55 doors before calling it a day. But there werefewer than 245 days before the November election and, as far as Darlene Turnerwas concerned, many more doors to go.milloyc@washpost.comTo read previous columns by Courtland Milloy, go to washingtonpost.com/milloy.