Eye contact.That, and a firm handshake, gets you the job, right?But for a lot of veterans, that's the snag they hit in their civilian jobsearch.They've stared down enemies, carried hundreds of pounds of gear in the desertsun, run complex computer programs and saved lives.Yet making eye contact with a superior is something that goes against everythingthat was ingrained in them during their years in the military.And it's just one of many things they have to unlearn to be able to function inthe civilian business world.The unemployment rate of veterans who are 18 to 24 years old is a nationalshame. More than 20 percent can't find work. That's 5 percentage points higherthan the civilian unemployment rate for that age group.Veterans have technical training, discipline, a monster work ethic and aferocious dedication to teamwork. But they are often disadvantaged in the jobmarket.The same machine that churns out soldiers also grinds up people. There'spost-traumatic stress disorder, substance abuse, and record rates of depressionand suicide, for starters.The military culture - the stuff about eye contact - is part of it, too."I have someone working for me here who still can't look his superiors in theeye," said Lee Bowes, chief executive of America Works, a welfare-to-workprogram that also focuses on veterans, specifically those who have hit rockbottom and are homeless."Work in and of itself helps socialize, normalize. There is value in that - itdiminishes a lot of the issues they face," Bowes said.One 32-year-old veteran was staying at the men's shelter on New York Avenue whenhe heard about America Works. He was suffering from PTSD and alcohol abuse andhad already done a stint in jail. His construction job became the one thing inhis life that gave him self-respect, a goal, a center."I started as a laborer. But it was work. And I needed work," he told me.A year later, he's the foreman of a group at Knight Connections, a veteran-ownedcompany that does government contract work in construction, landscaping andother labor. He's been hiring veterans whenever he can.That's what it was like after World War II: Veterans welcomed their comradesinto the business world, and the transition was seamless for many. But today,most of upper management is a generation that has never seen combat, and it'snot so easy to see the value and skills that military training can generate.Places like America Works find companies and try to match them with vets. Itrecently got a big contract with a document warehouse in Hyattsville that neededbig teams of workers who can function well together. Bingo!They hired 20 and are looking at 100 or so more rsums, said Jennifer Tiller,site director of the D.C. office of America Works.Work like that is a no-brainer for soldiers used to moving equipment inFallujah.But for less-physical jobs, agencies such as America Works help with education,development and office culture.It's no surprise, given what we've seen in the news lately, that workplacesexual harassment is a big hurdle to overcome."That's part of the culture - this is a problem we're finding. And part of ourtutorials are making sure they understand respect, professionalism in theworkplace," Tiller said.One of the women who works in the office with Tiller is a veteran.She often hears horror stories about harassment and abuse from former militarywomen: "They talk about how they survived all that."If you're a business owner, make a pledge this Memorial Day to hire a veteran.Call America Works at 202-466-5627 and say you've got a position for someone whohas a monster work ethic, steel discipline and dedication to teamwork.Even if he or she won't look you in the eye.dvorakp@washpost.comTwitter: @petuladTo read previous columns, go to washingtonpost.com/dvorak.