Trust might as well be a four-letter word. American public opinion seems to havebecome an unguided Weapon of Mass Suspicion, and it's not hard to understandwhy. But those who would exploit distrust, dissatisfaction and anger forpolitical gain had better worry about collateral damage.The overhyped Tea Party phenomenon is more about symbolism and screaming thananything else. A "movement" that encompasses gun nuts, tax protesters, devoteesof the gold standard, Sarah Palin, insurance company lobbyists,"constitutionalists" who have not read the Constitution, Medicare recipients whooppose government-run health care, crazy "birthers" who claim President Obamawas born in another country, a contingent of outright racists (come on, people,let's be real) and a bunch of fat-cat professional politicians pretending to be"outsiders" is not a coherent intellectual or political force.But even people who wouldn't be caught dead at a Tea Party rally have lost trustin powerful institutions that are supposed to be working in the public'sinterest -- with considerable reason. Just look at the headlines.There's obviously no reason to trust Wall Street. Theoretically, the only reasonfor the financial system to exist is to service the economy -- and the Americanpeople -- by channeling capital to its highest and best use. The charges filedlast week against Goldman Sachs illustrate the extent to which capitalism'sprecepts have been turned on their head by financiers who believe the economyexists to service them.The allegation, basically, is that John Paulson, a hedge fund mogul who wantedto place a billion-dollar-bet that the housing market would deflate, persuadedGoldman to round up patsies who would bet the other way. Then the transactionwas allegedly rigged so that Paulson would almost surely win his wager, which hedid. Goldman denies the allegations of fraud and says that, in any event, itlost money on the deal.Leave aside for the moment whether Goldman's action fell just inside or justoutside the line demarcating what was legal. What possible socially redeemingvalue did the transaction have? How did the concoction of a "syntheticcollateralized debt obligation" benefit anyone except the lavishly compensatedtraders at Goldman and the outrageously compensated John Paulson? Is this asystem the rest of us could possibly trust?Another story that won't go away is the pedophilia scandal in the Roman CatholicChurch. On Sunday, during a visit to Malta, Pope Benedict XVI prayed with eightadult victims of childhood sexual abuse by priests and reportedly expressed his"shame and sorrow." But practically every day, there are new revelations ofpedophile priests having been transferred to other parishes rather than beingdefrocked and reported to authorities.A CNN poll showed that 56 percent of U.S. Catholics disapprove of how Benedicthas dealt with the crisis. Even the judgment of the Vicar of Christ is beingquestioned.Perhaps most striking of all is a new Pew Research Center poll showing that thepublic's trust in the federal government has plummeted. Just 22 percent ofAmericans say they can trust the government all or most of the time, Pew found.Only 19 percent of respondents say they are "basically content" with thegovernment, while 56 percent are "frustrated" and another 21 percent describethemselves as "angry."According to the Pew survey, Americans have negative views of many largeinstitutions -- banks and financial firms, Congress, large corporations, thenational news media, federal agencies, the entertainment industry, labor unions.The nation still has a positive view of colleges and universities, churches,small businesses and technology companies. Respondents were evenly divided onthe Obama administration, with 45 percent being positive and 45 percentnegative. Given the current climate, the president might be tempted to claim amoral victory.There are some contradictions in Pew's findings. Americans strongly believe that"more government control over the economy" is a bad idea. But by a much biggermargin, they believe that "stricter regulation of financial companies" is a goodidea. This is the needle that Congress -- with an all-time-low approval ratingof 25 percent -- is now trying to thread.Republicans have been actively encouraging this groundswell of distrust on thetheory that it's bad for incumbents, meaning Democrats. Indeed, the approvalrating for the Democratic Party has plunged to 38 percent. The problem is thatapproval of the Republican Party has also fallen -- to 37 percent.The moral here, for giddy GOP strategists, is the one about people who live inglass houses.The writer will be online to chat with readers at 1 p.m. Eastern time Tuesday.Submit your questions and comments before or during the discussion.The writer will answer questions at 1 p.m. today at www.washingtonpost.com. Hise-mail address is eugenerobinson@washpost.com