More than 1,000 American women have died or suffered wounds in combat in Iraqand Afghanistan over the past 11 years. At long last, the government is givingthem official permission to do so.The decision by Defense Secretary Leon E. Panetta to lift the ban on womenserving in combat roles is the second historic, game-changing shift within theU.S. military in little more than a year. It follows on the heels of thedecision to let homosexuals serve their country openly."First the gays, and now the broads," exulted one friend of mine, a former Navyofficer, on her Facebook feed. "The military is going to hell in a handbasket,and I couldn't be happier."What this means is that about 250,000 combat jobs that women were officiallybanned from are now open. And yes, it means that more women will be dying.The fight for an equal right to serve on the front lines has been a supremelyrighteous struggle. This was not a campaign for the corner office, the countryclub membership or the keys to the executive washroom. This was an argument toserve with equal risk and to acknowledge that if there is a draft, our moms,daughters, sisters and wives will likely be told to go, too. And it underscoresthe idea that a man is no more expendable than a woman.To understand why women in the military are cheering this move is to comprehendthe absolute hypocrisy military women have faced for years.Army Reserve Col. Ellen Haring, one of the women who filed a lawsuit last springto open combat jobs to women, was elated and shocked Wednesday."We were getting ready for a long, drawn-out legal fight; this caught me totallyby surprise," said Haring, who lives in Northern Virginia but talked to me fromthe Army War College outside of Harrisburg, Pa., where she works.Haring made it clear to me that the ban wasn't about protecting sacred XXcreatures, givers of life. Her lawsuit amounted to a demand that women be givenbetter odds at surviving combat situations, which they get into quitefrequently.According to a report last April by the Congressional Research Service, about283,000 women have been deployed to Afghanistan and Iraq. More than 800 havebeen injured and 139 have been killed.Haring gave me the example of 1st Lt. Ashley White, a 24-year-old from Ohio whowas embedded with an Army Ranger unit in Kandahar province in Afghanistan whenshe and two Rangers were killed by a roadside bomb. White was with the unitbecause she could do things - such as frisk women in burqas - that men couldn't."Women like her do this all the time," Haring explained, when we talked abouther lawsuit last spring.And there were women in supply lines, drivers, techs - all killed in combat.What made Haring furious was that the Army was going around the no-combat ruleby attaching women to these units but not giving them the same combat trainingthat men get."I haven't talked about this before, but I have a daughter serving, she's alieutenant in the Army," Haring said. "So I did this for my daughter, for mygranddaughter, or all the other young women who will now have opportunities Ididn't have."Haring is a West Point graduate who longed to go through Army Ranger trainingbut never had the option.The change in women's roles is particularly felt in Washington, wherehigh-ranking women in and around the Pentagon often hit the so-called "brassceiling" because they never had the chance to earn the combat creds that theirmale counterparts had."But it also reverberates throughout our culture, because if you don't treatwomen equally, we won't be valued equally."With the change, the Defense Department eliminated "the last place thegovernment was able to formally discriminate against women," Haring said.She had been helping plan a symposium for next week on pushing for women incombat roles, but instead, the focus will be on implementation. The symposiumwill hear from other women who serve on the front lines from around the world,like a Norwegian infantry officer who was among the very first women to take ajob in combat.And anyone who dares still to suggest - or even think - that women aren't toughenough for the job is completely delusional.I was scared to death when I was late for an interview with now retired ArmyBrig. Gen. Rhonda Cornum, a surgeon, pilot, wife and mother.Cornum was sexually abused when she was taken prisoner during the Persian GulfWar.  She was shot and captured after her helicopter was gunned down.Her book, "She Went to War: The Rhonda Cornum Story," recounts how she survivedall that and describes how the men she was with all piled on top of her to saveher from gunfire, pinning her to the helicopter floor and thus ensuring she'dget shot.Any American soldier would be lucky to have her close by in combat. (And she waspretty nice about me being late, too.)But beyond the practical aspect of Panetta's decision, acknowledging that whichhas already happened (See: "don't ask, don't tell"), there is the symbolic,final cracking of one of the world's largest glass ceilings and one of the lastmale bastions. Well, sanctioned ones, at least.It turns out, the greatest enemy that women face in the military is from within.The nation's three military academies reported in December record numbers ofsexual assaults. Air Force officials this week likened the sexual assaultswithin their ranks to a "cancer."And if anyone dare say that this increase is simply because there are now morewomen serving alongside the men, then we have much bigger problems than we everimagined.But then again, maybe that will also change once women get that combat training.dvorakp@washpost.comTwitter: @petuladTo read earlier columns, go to washingtonpost.com/dvorak.Follow me on Twitter at @petulad.  Read earlier columns go to washingtonpost.com/dvorak.