STATE COLLEGE, Pa. - With the Penn Statehttp://www.washingtonpost.com/sports/jerry-sandusky-former-penn-state-assistant-football-coach-charged-with-sexually-assaulting-boys/2011/11/06/gIQAemcssM_gallery.html#photo=1footballprogram embroiled in scandal stemming from sexual abuse charges against alongtime assistant, the professional future of Coach Joe Paterno remained muchdebated and very much uncertain Tuesday.Since the release of a grand jury report detailing alleged sexual assaultsagainst boys committed by Paterno's longtime defensive coordinator JerrySandusky, controversy has engulfed this idyllic campus, and much of theconversation has focused on Paterno, the winningest coach in the history ofcollege football's highest level and widely regarded as the public face of theuniversity.Paterno, 84, testified before the grand jury and has not been charged in thecase against Sandusky,http://www.washingtonpost.com/wp-srv/sports/documents/sandusky-grand-jury-report11052011.html who was chargedwith 40 counts of sexually abusing eight children involved in his charityorganization. However, at issue is whether Paterno did enough when presentedwith an eyewitness account of one of the alleged assaults in the showers of thePenn State locker room and to what degree he is responsible for everything thathappens in the program over which he has presided for 46 years.Athletic Director Tim Curley, to whom Paterno relayed the report of the allegedassault,  and Gary Schultz, the university's senior vice president for financeand business,   have been charged with failing to notify authorities when toldof the alleged assault. Both stepped down from their posts Sunday night. Lawyersfor Sandusky, Curley and Schultz have said their clients are innocent of theirrespective charges.The New York Times, citing two unnamed sources, reported on its Web site thatPenn State officials had begun discussing how to manage the end of Paterno'stenure as coach. The Associated Press reported that Paterno's support amongmembers of the university's board of trustees was "eroding."The trustees issued a statement Tuesday night saying it "is outraged by thehorrifying details contained in the Grand Jury Report" and promising "swift,decisive action." The statement also said that at Friday's regular meeting itwould appoint a special committee to investigate the allegations.On Tuesday morning, when the Harrisburg Patriot-News devoted its entire frontpage to an editorial calling for university president Graham Spanier to stepdown and for this to be Paterno's last season as coach, hundreds of reportersdescended on campus to hear the coach answer questions for the first time sincethe grand jury report was released.Forty-eight minutes before Paterno's weekly news conference was scheduled tobegin, Jeff Nelson, Penn State's assistant athletic director for communications,read a   statement in front of roughly 150 reporters outside an entrance toBeaver Stadium."Due to the ongoing legal circumstances centered around the recent allegationsand charges, we have determined that today's press conference cannot be held andwill not be rescheduled," Nelson said.Then he tried to walk away, but the media horde followed, allowing him only toinch down the sidewalk as a 1957 matador red Chevy Bel Air drove by with acardboard cutout of Paterno in the backseat.The news conference cancellation set off an at times surreal pursuit of Paternoby media members, and the media reports inspiredrallies of support for the manwho is affectionately known as "JoePa."A short distance away from where Nelson made the announcement, dozens of tentswere propped up outside the southeast corner of Beaver Stadium. That's wherestudents camp out in order to obtain top seats for Saturday's football game.They call the makeshift community "Paternoville."Penn State freshman Alyssa Harding has lived in State College her entire life.Her father works for the university. She has so many fond memories of NittanyLions football and of Paterno.  She believes this matter will negatively affectPaterno's legacy, and she thinks that's a shame."People hear sex scandal at Penn State, and when people think Penn State, theythink Joe Paterno," Harding said. "I just hope he did the right thing, becausehe is such a great part of Penn State."Late Tuesday night, hundreds of Penn State students marched in support ofPaterno down College Avenue, the main drag through campus. They cheered,screamed and blocked traffic, on the way to Old Main, the university'sadministrative nerve center. At one point, the song 'Sweet Caroline' blared froman apartment along the route.Police in riot gear helped to disperse the crowd, which later moved on towardBeaver Stadium, chanting pro-Paterno and anti-Sandusky messages.Earlier in the evening, students http://www.washingtonpost.com/blogs/early-lead/post/penn-state-students-rally-to-support-joe-paterno/2011/11/08/gIQAMNny2M_blog.htmlcrowded in the street outside Paterno's ranch-style brickhouse at 830 McKee Street.One student held a sign that read: "Occupy McKee Street. We are the 99% thatbelieves JoePa deserves to stay."They chanted and cheered to see Paterno, and finally he obliged. Dressed in tanslacks and a light blue sweater, Paterno walked out of his house and onto hislawn. He immediately was swarmed by students and media."We want Joe!" the students continued to chant."And I want you!" Paterno said. "It's hard for me to tell you how much thismeans to me. You guys have lived for this place. I've lived for people like youguys and girls. I'm just so happy to see that you feel so strongly about us andabout our school. And as I said, I don't know if you heard me or not, is, youknow, the kids who were victims or whatever they want to say, I think we allought to say a prayer for them. It's a tough life when people do certain thingsto you. But anyway, you've been great. You've been really great.""Let Joe stay!" the students chanted."We are!" Paterno shouted."Penn State!" the crowd responded.yandas@washpost.com