QThis may sound like a silly grievance , but please hear me out before you laughme off the stage : A good deal of the friction between me and my supervisorarises from the fact that my supervisor does n't have a sense of humor.I myself have an enormous sense of humor and love to utilize it whenever I can.But whenever my supervisor is present , she either looks at me in pure terror orpure confusion whenever I make some sort of funny , and it drives me crazy . 
Buton an even greater level , my supervisor once yelled at me for saying somethingin jest to a co-worker . 
The co-worker chuckled and did n't give it anotherthought , but my supervisor thought it was inappropriate . 
( For the record , theco-worker in question knows me well enough to know my style of humor and alwaysreceives my humor as it was intended . ) 
How do I deal with a supervisor who has no sense of humor ? 
Because it 's a realmorale killer for me . 
AI sympathize with your desire to bring levity to theworkplace . 
We all tend to take our jobs too seriously , especially duringeconomic times like these , when it seems like we have little choice . 
It is amistake , however , to allow your morale to be dependent on whether your jokes geta laugh from your supervisor . 
You can not very well complain to human resourcesthat your supervisor does not think you 're funny . 
If she is not a receptiveaudience , then you should either restrain yourself from making jokes when she isaround , or accept the fact that your humor will not always be a hit.You should also reflect upon whether your banter is entirely appropriate . 
Ifyour supervisor does not laugh at a joke , it does not necessarily mean that shedoes n't " get it . " 
If she seems terrified or confused , as you say , it may be thatshe feels offended and is struggling with how to respond without eitherencouraging you or hurting your feelings.For purposes of harassment law and your organization 's anti-harassment policy , it does not matter how you intend your humor to be perceived . 
It is enough thatit offends someone in your workplace , potentially compromising that person ' sability to thrive professionally.You are fortunate to enjoy workplace relationships with people who know you wellenough to understand your jokes in the spirit intended . 
Yet it is highlyunlikely that everyone who works with you will give you the benefit of thedoubt . 
Even a co-worker 's laughter is not always an indicator that you areperceived to be funny . 
After all , he or she could be laughing nervously or in aneffort to make light of an awkward situation.Without knowing what you said to make your co-worker chuckle and your supervisorcringe , I can not tell you whether it is the type of remark that would normallyrise to the level of a policy violation . 
However , I can assure you that , if yoursupervisor thought the joke was inappropriate , other people in your workplaceprobably thought it was inappropriate , too.It is always possible that your supervisor is freakishly humorless . 
But it ismore likely that she has legitimate concerns about the things you say.I realize that I am assuming a lot about you and your circumstances . 
Maybe youare making completely innocent and positively hilarious quips about bunnies andrainbows . 
Maybe your supervisor just needs to loosen up a bit . 
But I have beenaround enough workplaces to know that the reality is rarely so simple.Your supervisor enjoys the protection of your organization 's policies just asany other employee does . 
So if she is not responding to your humor , you shouldask her why . 
Open a dialogue about how she perceives you and the jokes you make.If you approach her with an open attitude and a genuine willingness to examineyour own actions , the walls between you will start to come down.Lily <PERSON>Garcia</PERSON> has advised companies on employment law and human resources for morethan 10 years . 
A weekly version of her column and a twice-monthly online chatappear at http://washingtonpost.com/jobs . 
E-mail questions to HRadvice@washingtonpost.com 
