All these photo scandals we 're talking about ? 
They are n't really about the nudiepics.These are n't just dirty old men who want to see bare breasts and thighs.The Georgetown rabbi arrested for allegedly hiding a camera in the mikvah poolarea where Jewish women take sacred , private ritual baths , the Baltimoregynecologist who secretly filmed his patient examinations , the freaks hackinginto celebrity mobile phones and even creeps snapping photos up women 's skirtsall have easy access to plenty of porn . 
( Trust me . 
As the mother of two boys constantly checking on their computer use , every Hot Wheels Curves track search is a click or two away from high-defdepravity . ) 
But , no , it 's not body parts that these men are after . 
The turn-on here is aboutpower , subjugation and humiliation . 
It 's about men getting what they want , despite what women say.It 's insidious not only because it 's cowardly and cheap , but also because insome cases , it 's done by the very men women trust most . 
They are the down-lowsexists whose version of sexual assault is a mental game.And it 's an attitude that is disturbingly popular.Members of the local Jewish community were stunned this week by the news thatRabbi <PERSON>Barry Freundel</PERSON> , a renowned scholar and a towering figure in the <ORGANIZATION>KesherIsrael Congregation</ORGANIZATION> , had been charged with six counts of voyeurism and couldface up to six years in prison . 
Investigators say <PERSON>Freundel</PERSON> , 62 , recorded womenin the mikvah area using a clock radio that contained a hidden camera.This is the wise man who guided women on their spiritual path , who helped themthrough times of tribulation or urged them on to further enlightenment . 
Onewoman who studied with him for her conversion to Judaism said he even helpfullysuggested that she take as many practice dips in the mikvah pool as she liked.But she said he also warned her against disturbing that odd clock radio near thewater.And now every woman who has ever come in contact with this powerful figure willwonder.I 'll tell you this , catcalling on the street is less dangerous than this kind ofbetrayal.What happened in that bath area was sacred , it 's where women were at their mostvulnerable , unclothed and alone with their thoughts.Stealing that right to privacy , to comfort and to an expectation of safety istaking away something that can never be replaced.The same goes for what happened in the medical offices of <PERSON>Nikita A. Levy</PERSON> , aJohns <PERSON>Hopkins</PERSON> gynecologist who killed himself last year in the middle of apolice investigation that uncovered two decades worth of patient picturessurreptitiously taken in his offices.There are few things women hate more than getting on that table . 
The only solacein this annual torture is that this is a doctor.If Levy found pleasure in naked women parts , it apparently was n't enough tospend his day looking at them . 
He filmed them . 
And that , to me , seemed lessabout having access to seeing even more crotches for pleasure and more aboutsubjugating and objectifying the trust that these women placed in him.Trust . 
That 's the theft here.In <PERSON>Hanna Rosin</PERSON> 's keep-you-from-having-kids piece this week in the <LOCATION>Atlantic</LOCATION> , WhyKids Sext , she interviews boys who spent an insane amount of time wooing girls , complimenting them , building their trust enough to get them to sext a nude photoof themselves.Then , the boys drop the girls like rocks and post their photos on Instagram orother sites , where they humiliate the girls and pile on , calling them " down lowhos " because they are good girls whose alleged slutty side is below the radar.Nope . 
These are n't the boys sneaking peeks at the Playboys behind the modestycover at the corner store , because how else are they ever going to see a breast?This humiliation of females they are learning at a young age is the buildingblock for a far more dangerous and insidious sexism.The predators who are n't engaging enough to form relationships with women beforetrashing their trust behind their backs have a way into this game , too.They are the upskirters , the guys who get close to women in public spaces andshoot photos up their skirts . 
Charges were recently dropped against a guy wholurked on the steps of the Lincoln Memorial and filled his camera 's memory cardwith under-skirt photos . 
The judge ruled that he did not do anything illegal , saying the women had positioned themselves in ways that made their intimateareas visible to any passerby.The comment sections on this court story were filled with hate , telling womenthey have no right to privacy if they wear skirts in public.Sound familiar , this blaming the victim?There is undeniably an epidemic of sexual assault in this country . 
Nearly 1 in 5American women have reported being raped at some time in their lives , accordingto the <ORGANIZATION>Centers for Disease Control</ORGANIZATION> and Prevention.But this ? 
This quiet , cowardly runaround that manages to rob women and girls oftheir sense of safety without any physical contact is frightening , too.petula.dvorak@washpost.comTwitter: @ petuladï ... OE For previous columns , go to washingtonpost.com/dvorak . 
