Students at <ORGANIZATION>North Carolina State University</ORGANIZATION> have developed a nail polish that can detect the presence of date rape drugs . 
The product is intended to serve as a defense mechanism against sexual assault . 
Numerous colleges , including the <ORGANIZATION>University</ORGANIZATION> , are currently attempting to revamp their sexual assault policies , after facing pressure from the federal government and from the public , knowing that the <ORGANIZATION>University</ORGANIZATION> is one of 55 schools under investigation for mismanaging sexual assault cases . 
The <ORGANIZATION>University</ORGANIZATION> has hired a new Prevention Coordinator , <PERSON>Nicole Thomas</PERSON> , who will work with Dean <PERSON>Nicole Eramo</PERSON> to create new prevention initiatives . 
A product like Rohypnol-detecting nail polish is an individualized rather than an institutional approach . 
While the new invention has been received positively by some , others think it only perpetuates habits of victim blaming - putting the responsibility of preventing sexual assault on women . 
This is not the first product invented for women to defend themselves against sexual assault . 
Last year , a company named AR Wear designed " anti-rape " underwear , and faced similar criticisms from many anti-rape activists , even though the company was likely well-intentioned . 
The reality is there will always be some kind of product marketed to women to protect themselves , from the high tech to the rudimentary - mace , pepper spray , self-defense classes . 
There is nothing inherently wrong with creating , buying or using these products . 
But they can only help in isolated incidents ; they do nothing to fix the larger problem . 
The inventors have said their product " empower [ s ] women to protect themselves , " and though a woman may feel empowered by averting an attack , we still need to ask why she needs to avert one in the first place . 
Why is sexual assault such a pervasive crime ? 
Why is it a violation that one quarter of college women experience ? 
There are more effective methods of preventing rape which deal with the larger problem . 
We have endorsed an " ask first " consent policy , and yes , we continue to beat the dead horse because the issue continues to be pervasive . 
We have advocated for a combination of prevention and punishment . 
In addition to education and conversation about how to properly respect a peer 's bodily autonomy , students need an efficient and effective judicial body to ensure their attackers will be reprimanded . 
The case of three <PERSON>James Madison</PERSON> University students who were found guilty of sexual assault and punished with " expulsion after graduation " does not offer survivors any sense of security . 
If survivors feel no confidence in their universities ' adjudication systems , they will not report , and perpetrators will continue to commit crimes knowing there will likely be no consequences . 
Members of boards which adjudicate sexual misconduct cases should place scrutiny on alleged attackers , asking " Did you ask for consent ? " 
and " Did she say yes ? " 
rather than asking complainants , " Did you use your Rohypnol-detecting nail polish ? " 
or " Did you wear provocative clothing ? " 
While women always have the freedom to use preventative measures , they should not be required to do so in order to prove their refusal . 
Our hope is that universities can eliminate the need for individualized defensive products , because a community in which we feel we need to test our drinks before consuming them does not fit the ideal of a community of trust . 
We need to dig into the heart of this issue in order to fix it ; nail polish only brushes the surface . 
