There 's been a lot of fuss recently in this paperabout sexual assault . 
Many college men , obviously sympathetic to the issue , argue that although women are not to blame for rape , there are precautions that can be taken to make these " unwanted situations " less likely . 
Do n't wear those scandalous mini-skirts . 
Do n't walk home at <TIME>4 a.m.</TIME> Alas , if it were only so easy . 
All these well-meaning words of advice are based on assumptions and biases that obfuscate the reality of sexual assault . 
When the rapist is statistically more likely to be the nice young man walking the woman home than a stranger from the shadows of an alley , the unfortunate futility of " prevention " is made manifest . 
Thus , instead of pontificating about what a woman can do to prevent the unpreventable , it is more productive to promote an environment of believing the survivor rather than at all implying she had a say in whether or not she was sexually assaulted . 
Women are told by society not to put themselves in dangerous situations -- the problem is , any situation can be dangerous . 
First of all , disabuse yourself of the creepy-stranger image of a rapist . 
Seventy-five percent of rapists have known their victims for more than a year . 
The very word " rapist " has such a pejorative connotation that most people construct an image completely inconsistent with reality . 
Rapists are n't always those guys you see on <LOCATION>America</LOCATION> 's Most Wanted . 
It 's more likely your best friend 's boyfriend 's friend you had a great time talking to at the bar . 
In order to wrap our minds around difficult truths , we tend to categorize and simplify people into Disney-esque good guys and bad guys . 
Yes , there are quite a few categorically bad people who sexually assault women and men . 
At the same time , otherwise good people make some very sordid decisions . 
These men may have believed the woman wanted it -- she was just playing hard to get . 
But there is pretty clear difference between a woman being playful and a woman who physically and verbally says " no . " 
For such an intimate act , both people should at the very least clearly consent . 
If any life scenario can become dangerous , what is a woman supposed to do ? 
Should she stay in her room all day and night , doors locked , under the covers , armed with a can of mace ? 
What so many people do n't understand is that there is no real precaution that can be taken to prevent a rapist from following through on his intentions . 
The most offensive , vile comment made to a sexual assault survivor is that she was too confused to know if she was raped or not . 
Let 's reconstruct the scene : A woman was drinking a little too much jungle juice at her favorite fraternity , she meets a handsome man wearing a polo of a very flattering shade of pink , one thing leads to another , and she wakes up the next morning next to someone whose name she can not remember . 
Ah , pity the feeble woman whose mind can not distinguish between regret and rape ! 
What a deeply sadistic and vindictive woman to go through the pains of a rape kit ( 25 pubic hairs are individually plucked in order to file a police report ) in order to ... punish the man ? 
This is simply not what occurs . 
According to the <ORGANIZATION>FBI</ORGANIZATION> Uniform Crime Reports , less than <PERCENT>five percent</PERCENT> of rape reports are false . 
This is a very small number . 
The bigger issue , however , is the fact that more than half of sexual assaults go unreported , according to RAINN . 
Most women who are raped never file a police report out of shame and not wanting to endure accusations like those levied against them in today 's culture of " what they should have done . " 
Instead of questioning a woman who has the courage to report rape , it is much more rational and humane to believe her . 
The line of questioning used in sexual assault cases versus other types of violent crime puts in relief the prejudice against women . 
When someone is robbed , people do n't ask , " Well , how late were you out ? " 
" Did you fight back ? " 
No , of course not . 
Why then , is sexual assault so different ? 
As long as victim blaming continues to drown out the cries of sexually assaulted women , this culture of silence will persist and envelope our mothers , our daughters and our sisters in a wrought-iron cage of paranoia and self-blame . 
( C ) <DATE>2006</DATE> Cavalier Daily via U-WIRE 
