The worst trauma I experienced was not when one of my ex-boyfriend 's fraternity brothers tried to rape me at a date function . 
The worst trauma I experienced was <DATE>seven months later</DATE> , when I had a trigger while having sex with my ex-boyfriend , and he left . 
For those of you who may not know what a trigger is , it 's something that makes you remember your traumatic event , in a way that you feel like it 's happening to you all over again . 
You are disconnected from the here and now . 
You feel scared , your heart races , sometimes you feel like you ca n't move or breathe . 
My ex-boyfriend ( I 'll call him John ) could n't handle seeing me in such a state . 
When I have a trigger , I usually just need someone to sit with me for a little while . 
<PERSON>John</PERSON> did the opposite : he got up , got dressed , and walked out the door . 
He told me he could n't comfort me when he was the one who made me upset . 
But he did n't understand that he was n't to blame ; the person who inflicted my initial trauma was . 
That 's hard to comprehend when the perpetrator is n't in your life anymore - when you 're only tortured by your memories . 
That <DATE>summer</DATE> I went to therapy and talked through what had happened with <PERSON>John</PERSON> . 
My therapist suggested I take precautions in the future - namely , telling someone before I have sex with him about my assault , and what my triggers might be . 
I know she 's right . 
But I have never done that . 
Like many others , a lot of my sexual experiences in college have been casual . 
I 've always there 's thought nothing inherently wrong with that . 
I 'm a big advocate of sexual freedom , and for some , the choice to have casual sex is part of that . 
But casual encounters might not be best for people who have had trauma . 
Any kind of consensual sex with anyone can be difficult after you 've suffered a traumatic sexual experience , but when you meet someone at a party or at the bar and then go home together , there usually is n't a whole lot of talking that happens before you start taking your clothes off . 
There 's an unspoken rule that there is no room for disclosing baggage like that . 
Because of the lingering effects of <PERSON>John</PERSON> 's abandonment , I could n't let go of the feeling that I was damaged . 
I did n't want to amplify that feeling by putting a disclaimer on myself - " be sure you handle me with care , otherwise I 'll break again . " 
It just does n't feel right to take someone home with me , knowing all we want from each other is sex , and sit him down to give him a spiel about my trauma . 
My experience tells me he 'd probably just walk away right there . 
John was someone whom I cared about and who ( I thought ) cared about me , and he did n't even stay to comfort me . 
Someone who has no personal attachment to me whatsoever - why would he even bother ? 
You might say to me : why do n't you just wait until you 're in a steady relationship ? 
And that 's valid . 
When sex is difficult because of traumas or fears , it 's probably best to do it with someone you know you can really trust . 
But I did n't go that route because I wanted to return to a sense of normalcy . 
Taking a guy home from the party because I wanted to was part of my normal . 
After my trauma I continued to do it in order to convince myself that I was healed ? 
that my past did n't have to inhibit me . 
But it does inhibit me . 
It 's hard to accept that . 
Even if you can get to a point where you can say and believe it 's not your fault , you still have to sleep with the lights on sometimes . 
You still have to take only a certain route home . 
And you still have to consciously remind yourself of the here and now , when the guy with a face like <PERSON>Adam Levine</PERSON> and abs like <PERSON>Hugh Jackman</PERSON> is taking your shirt off . 
You still have to spend so much energy suppressing your bad memories and anchoring yourself to the present , in a moment where all you want to do is lie back and let go . 
Where does this leave us , in a community where the rate of sexual trauma is far too high , and in a culture where casual sexual encounters are so commonplace - even pressured upon us by friend groups ? 
Well , I have always believed you should do what you want to do , free of judgment or pressure from anyone else . 
Sometimes it 's hard to tease out your authentic desires from cultural standards , but to the extent you are capable of knowing yourself , listen to that instinct . 
And most importantly , in taking the liberty of doing what you want to do , take care that you do n't harm anyone - and that includes yourself . 
For survivors of trauma , this means waiting until you 're ready . 
And for those who have n't survived trauma , it means being more aware of the fragility of your partners ' sexual selves . 
None of the men I took home with me had any power or responsibility to fix me . 
But they did have a responsibility to communicate - to check in every step of the way - because that 's what you owe anybody you share that level of intimacy with , no matter what their history is . 
And if something goes wrong , remember that it is n't your fault , just as it was n't mine . 
It 's hard to understand , but in the here and now , all I need you to do is stay . 
<PERSON>Katherine Ripley</PERSON> is a fourth-year in the College and was the 125th executive editor of The Cavalier Daily . 
