The state of <LOCATION>California</LOCATION> is poised to make " yes means yes " the standard of consent for all its private and public universities . 
Senate Bill 967 , if signed by Governor <PERSON>Jerry Brown</PERSON> , would require universities to determine whether a complainant said yes , instead of whether she said no when investigating sexual assault cases . 
We have already argued in favor of an " ask first " consent policy , but given the passage of this <LOCATION>California</LOCATION> bill , which has the potential to set a precedent and make this proposal into a legal reality , we will take this opportunity to renew our support , address some additional counter-arguments and lay out the measures we believe are necessary to implement an affirmative consent policy . 
Some opponents of the bill argue it is too intrusive . 
The <LOCATION>Los Angeles</LOCATION> Times , for example , published an editorial arguing the bill is " extraordinarily intrusive " because it attempts to " micromanage sex . " 
Indeed , sex is a personal and private issue . 
But this bill is not about government or university officials attempting to meddle in people 's bedrooms . 
The bill is about changing the way university officials conduct sexual misconduct investigations and adjudications . 
Perpetrators should not be able to use " I did n't know " as a defense against their charges . 
Survivors should not feel afraid to file complaints because they are worried they might face questions like , " why did n't you fight harder ? " 
Another critique of the bill is that it would lead to " too many punitive situations " for men , as a spokesman for the <ORGANIZATION>San Diego-based National Coalition</ORGANIZATION> for Men said . 
But such an argument holds on to the misconception that anti-rape activists are somehow out to get men , which simply is not true . 
The bill is not about creating more opportunities for women to trap men into a situation in which they can not defend their innocence . 
That is why extensive education must accompany a formal change of policy like this - to make sure students know how to follow it . 
Education should ideally begin even before students get to college . 
A Think Progress article by <PERSON>Tara Culp-Ressler</PERSON> suggests comprehensive sex education in schools , starting at kindergarten and going all the way to 12th grade , can teach young people " that they have ownership over their body " and make them " more likely to speak up when they feel that consent has been violated - and perhaps less likely to violate someone else 's consent . " 
Much of the contention around sex education involves what methods of birth control should be taught , but sex education should not just be about how to avoid pregnancy and STDs . 
It should also be about how to avoid sexual violence . 
In some places in <LOCATION>America</LOCATION> , there is still an intense taboo attached to sex ed , and too many euphemisms are used to talk about it , which could lead young people to believe asking questions about sex is wrong or embarrassing . 
Education at all levels about sex and consent will hopefully break down that barrier and make it easier for people to practice affirmative consent . 
Of course , universities should also continue such education , perhaps by using resident advisors to explain consent policies in small groups in order to ensure every student is aware of the standards . 
Sexual assault on college campuses is a big issue , but solving it will require a multi-faceted approach that extends into the world outside higher education . 
State governments are effective actors in dealing with this issue , because they can not only set requirements for their universities ' policies , but also influence the curricula of their public school systems . 
This can serve as a powerful combination for combatting sexual assault , and we hope to see it utilized in the future . 
