FOLLOWING what has become a general trend , last week the powers that be brought <LOCATION>America</LOCATION> closer to complete irresponsibility and sexual anarchy . 
The <ORGANIZATION>Food and Drug Administration</ORGANIZATION> decided to allow Plan B , the emergency contraceptive manufactured by <ORGANIZATION>Barr Pharmaceuticals</ORGANIZATION> , to be sold without a prescription . 
Thankfully , two stipulations exist to procure Plan B. Purchasers must be over the age of 18 , and to this end , pharmacists must sell Plan B behind the pharmaceutical counter to ensure that IDs are properly checked . 
By removing the " inconvenience " of a doctor 's prescription , however , greater harm is done by further mitigating consequences and promoting irresponsible behavior . 
The social stigma associated with uncommitted sex has largely been erased in our country . 
" Do what you want in the privacy of your own bedroom , dorm room or hotel room , " we 've come to say , " but let those who engage in irresponsible behavior deal with the consequences of their actions . " 
Engaging in sexual activity at any place , with any person , and at any age is not a human right and should not be excused or justified . 
Easing the regulations on Plan B is just one more way for people indulging in casual or unprotected sex to escape the consequences of their actions . 
While I do n't intend this to be a column on the virtues of abstinence , if American female consumers are so eager to prevent pregnancy , they should not have sex in the first place . 
Those who do not use <ORGANIZATION>EC</ORGANIZATION> to prevent pregnancy might , in the case that they do become pregnant , later get an abortion . 
This too is an unacceptable alternative . 
Biologically , the result of unprotected and irresponsible sex is commonly pregnancy or disease , but in the name of reproductive rights , many women avoid letting the consequences of their actions come to term in the form of pregnancy , unwilling to deal with their irresponsibility . 
Many will point to victims of rape and incest as those who could benefit immensely from Plan B being made readily available . 
As usual , though , this is a red herring argument intended to distract from the real issue : that Plan B will be used in many cases resulting from blatantly irresponsible behavior . 
By holding victims of rape and incest over the American conscience , countless thousands of other women are given a shoo-in , leaving very little in the way of consequences for a careless lifestyle . 
Furthermore , if women 's groups really were so concerned with the health and reproductive rights of a rape victim , they would insist on a physical examination by a licensed doctor . 
Not requiring a doctor 's examination , even if it is an unforeseen or unintended consequence , is one major misstep in making Plan B available over the counter to persons 18 or older . 
But then of course , this is n't really about rape victims . 
Plan B manufacturers advertise its product in two widely read and popular magazines , Cosmopolitan and Lucky . 
Surely , reducing regulation of Plan B is not intended to ensure that rape victims have easier access to contraception . 
<PERSON>Kim Gandy</PERSON> , president of the <ORGANIZATION>National Organization for Women</ORGANIZATION> said last week in response to what women 's groups are calling a partial victory for reproductive health , " Emergency . 
Contraception . 
What part of <ORGANIZATION>EC</ORGANIZATION> do n't they understand ? 
EC should be available to all women , without interference or barriers imposed by a church or the state . " 
Yes , of course , those nasty , vile , discriminate Republicans insist on throwing around their political power because they hate women and their reproductive rights . 
This sentiment is stupid , utterly stupid . 
Gandy and NOW believe that all women , with no age restriction , should have immediate , unrestricted and unregulated access to Plan B . 
This devalues the importance of women 's health and advocates an easy and reckless lifestyle that in the end leaves many women unhappy . 
Further , NOW 's goal to make Plan B available regardless of age is absurd . 
In most public schools , twelve-year-olds can not get access to Tylenol or their own prescription medications without the supervision of the school nurse and the consent of a parent . 
Yet , it is the mission of NOW to allow 12-year-olds unrestricted access to a drug that , according to its manufacturers , has side effects such as , " nausea , abdominal pain , tiredness , headache , dizziness and vomiting . " 
Young girls -- middle school students -- should not have unrestricted access to emergency contraception ; it 's not Tylenol . 
Taking emergency contraception should not be considered on the same level as say , curing a headache . 
This is just one symptom stemming from the common hubris of our time . 
Ultimately , we must confront the attitude of convenience , moral compromise and contempt for social responsibility . 
Women should bear the consequences of their actions , literally in this case . 
<PERSON>Christa Byker</PERSON> is a <ORGANIZATION>Cavalier Daily Opinion</ORGANIZATION> columnist . 
She can be reached at cbyker@cavailerdaily.com . 
( C ) <DATE>2006</DATE> Cavalier Daily via U-WIRE 
