I used to be terrified of the Bogeyman . 
As my older friends described him , he was an escaped convict who wore a patch over one eye and would hide under children 's beds , waiting until it was dark to jump out and attack . 
Of course , I got over my fear as I grew older . 
I realized , as most people eventually do , that most threats to my safety do n't come from the Bogeyman . 
They come from my actions and the actions of those around me . 
We would all be advised to take a similar approach to student safety . 
Discussion focuses too much on Bogeyman-type crime : We hear " do n't walk home alone after dark " perhaps more than any other warning . 
We would benefit from shifting our attention to the more serious threats to our well-being : ourselves and each other . 
To be sure , there are still bad people out there . 
Random crime is by no means gone from the list of things we have to fear . 
Only it should be a lot lower on the list than it sometimes is . 
Of course , we hear the horror stories -- a number of incidents of seemingly random assaults and robberies have been reported on Grounds over the last few months . 
But what do n't we hear about ? 
The stories that appear on the nightly news are , by design , the most sensational and unbelievable stories . 
We pay attention to them specifically because they 're atypical . 
In doing so , we lose sight of the kinds of things that are more common , and therefore more likely to harm us . 
The <ORGANIZATION>National Crime Victimization Survey</ORGANIZATION> estimates that less than half of all crimes -- and less than a quarter of all sexual assaults -- are committed by strangers ( http://www.ojp.usdoj.gov/bjs/cvict_c.htm#relate ) . 
The sexual assault statistic is particularly relevant , as sexual assault is one of the top safety concerns for college-age people , more so than for other age groups . 
If over three-fourths of sexual assaults are committed by acquaintances ; most rapists are n't hiding in the bushes , waiting for women to walk home alone after dark . 
The majority of potential rapists are people we know , people we see in broad daylight . 
They do n't wear patches over their eyes and hide in the dark . 
They 're in our classes and walk amongst us . 
This certainly does n't make walking home alone late at night any safer . 
But being protective of our safety needs to involve much more than encouraging students to take the <ORGANIZATION>Escort Service</ORGANIZATION> . 
Avoiding the dark walk home alone wo n't do anything to prevent the majority of sexual assaults . 
Other measures will . 
We do n't have any control over would-be attackers . 
We do have some control over ourselves and over the risks we take . 
This does n't mean that we 're responsible for anything bad that might happen to us . 
It does mean that we can take steps to minimize risk by making good decisions about the situations in which we put ourselves . 
The idea behind not walking alone in the dark is that putting ourselves in such a dangerous situation is stupid . 
Yet we do not have the same aversion to equally dangerous situations when they involve potential assaults at the hands of acquaintances . 
This is understandable -- naturally , it 's much easier to feel threatened by the imagined Bogeyman lurking in the shadows than by someone you know . 
The difficult -- but necessary -- action is to recognize that acquaintances often present a greater safety threat . 
Take another example : Yes , it 's possible that some student will get attacked on his way home from the library next <DATE>weekend</DATE> . 
But during the same weekend , it 's far more likely that someone will get hurt from an alcohol-related car crash . 
We fear the former when we should fear the latter at least as much . 
We can spend all the time we want trying to prevent random assaults and robberies -- and doing so is certainly desirable . 
But " student safety " is just empty rhetoric until we face up to addressing things like date rape and drunk driving as well . 
Admittedly , this area of our safety is harder to address . 
We ca n't just throw more money , more police or an expanded <ORGANIZATION>Escort Service</ORGANIZATION> at the problem . 
Combating these sorts of threats to our safety will have to involve education -- police ca n't mandate good decision-making . 
To avoid these kinds of risks , students have to not put themselves in bad situations . 
Such an education push is worth the added effort if we are committed to protecting students . 
This education depends on students talking to each other . 
Do n't just warn your friend not to walk home alone . 
Remember also to keep him or her from drinking to the point of intoxication and going home with a date he or she does n't know well . 
Be as committed to preventing your friend from driving drunk as you are to making sure he locks his door at night . 
We need to stop looking over shoulders for the Bogeyman following us in the dark . 
Doing so prevents us from seeing that the real threats to our safety are often right in front of us . 
( C ) <DATE>2000</DATE> Cavalier Daily via U-WIRE 
