Society long has considered alcohol as having an oppressive quality to it . 
For example , historians consider Europeans ' introduction of " firewater " to Indians during the colonial period as having large-scale detrimental effects on the latter 's society . 
Something that weakens one 's facilities of reason and judgment must be inherently oppressive on some level . 
The rise of binge drinking by female college students has critics directing their worries about alcohol consumption to this particular demographic . 
Some feminists claim that women suffer socially due to exposure to alcohol . 
In <DATE>last Wednesday</DATE> 's forum , <PERSON>Kate Kennedy</PERSON> implied that because alcohol fueled a campus " hook-up culture , " its consumption by women hurt the feminist cause . 
But stigmatizing female drinking is far from being feminist . 
Specifically condemning the use of alcohol by women is unfair and furthers gender inequality . 
Alcohol consumption does not oppress women ; thinking that it does is oppressive to women . 
<PERSON>Kate Kennedy</PERSON> calls alcohol the " substitute for dating , " and the " elixir for hooking up . " 
Kennedy defines " hooking up " as a physical encounter where neither party necessarily expects a relationship . 
Her impression of the college-wide " hook-up culture " is decidedly negative , and blaming women 's consumption of alcohol on it makes alcohol consumption negative by association as well . 
It 's true that alcohol is involved in probably the vast majority of hook-ups , but this need not be a harmful situation for women . 
Alcohol does not need to make women victims -- it can make them agents . 
If drinking makes women more susceptible to being hit on by men , it also makes them more likely to hit on men themselves . 
Increasing the frequency of women taking on this traditional male role of the initiator is a small step forward in social , gender equality . 
Considering the woman a casualty of the hook-up is to deny her agency in the occurrence . 
Unfortunately , hooking up is still not completely socially acceptable for women . 
Alcohol provides a temporary scapegoat , an excuse for the less brazen . 
She may have known what she was doing , but blaming the liquor helps her avoid that nasty " slut " epithet . 
Not that this is ideal ; women should feel free to admit that they intentionally hooked up and enjoyed it . 
But both after the fact and during the act , alcohol gives women a kind of freedom from negative judgment . 
And for now , women can pursue pleasure without having to worry about social repercussions . 
But this can cause at least one concrete problem with alcohol consumption is that it makes women more susceptible to sexual assault . 
Drinking lessens a woman 's facilities of resistance , both mental and physical . 
Additionally , men who have been drinking are less reasonable , making them more likely to consider assault and further , unable to understand no . 
Asking women to curb their alcohol consumption is not the solution . 
Women do n't need to stop drinking , men need to change their attitudes toward drunk women . 
The good news concerning alcohol and sexual assault is that the law protects the victim , usually the woman , and not the perpetrator , usually the man . 
Being in a drunken state during the assault should not prevent the woman from prosecuting her attacker -- a woman does not deserve to be assaulted just because she is drunk . 
If acute intoxication prevents her from physically resisting , she still has a case against her rapist . 
Moreover , if a man was drinking when he committed the assault , his state in no way absolves him of his actions . 
In both cases , alcohol simply is not an excuse for sexual assault . 
Alcohol need n't be a vehicle of female oppression . 
The problem lies in society 's continued negative stigmatization of both women who drink and the party/hook-up culture . 
It 's a subtler facet of equality but still an important one . 
Alcohol itself does not oppress women -- creating a double standard for its consumption and limiting women 's social privileges does . 
So , I propose a toast to the women of <ORGANIZATION>the University of Virginia</ORGANIZATION> : We 've come a long way for the freedom to make our own decisions , may we enjoy the right to social privileges as much as the next man . 
( C ) <DATE>2002</DATE> Cavalier Daily via U-WIRE 
