I 'm a survivor and it took far too long for me to feel supported . 
I grew up in an environment where topics like consent and healthy relationships were never discussed . 
I was taught to believe in the classic rape myth : rapists are strangers who jump out of bushes . 
I met the man who raped me at a fraternity party ( no , he was not a member of Greek life ) my first semester in college . 
The assault did not happen that night , but a few weeks later , after I ran into him at another party . 
I knew I had said no , that I had cried , and that I ran back to my dorm afterwards . 
I did not associate my assault with the word " rape " because no one had ever explained to me what actually constitutes rape . 
I knew what had happened to me was wrong , but none of my friends seemed concerned ; they thought I was being dramatic for thinking what happened was anything but " miscommunication " and " regrettable sex . " 
I did not allow myself to associate the word " rape " with what had happened to me , until after I had watched a video in a class during my second semester of second year , where a girl described her sexual assault - and I felt like I could have been the one speaking . 
It had been a year and a half since I was raped , so even though there is no statute of limitations in the criminal justice system and the <ORGANIZATION>Sexual Misconduct Board</ORGANIZATION> still had jurisdiction , I felt that reporting would just cause me more mental and emotional damage . 
I had no evidence and I believed that I would be blamed and attacked for reporting , especially since " friends " of mine had already showed what victim-blaming behaviors my peers could be capable of . 
So why have n't I , and countless other survivors , reported our assaults to the police or administration ? 
Some have heard negative things about the <ORGANIZATION>Sexual Misconduct Board</ORGANIZATION> . 
Some are afraid of retaliation by their perpetrators . 
Some find the criminal justice system is too harsh an environment for survivors . 
Some , like me , did n't realize what happened to them was a crime because this country does such a poor job of educating people on this subject in middle school and high school ; by the time we get to college , we are ill-equipped to handle these situations . 
But there is another reason why so many , including myself , choose not to report . 
Because of you . 
Maybe not you reading this ( although there are some individuals I can think of who made me not want to report ) , but you as a collective group , you as a society , you as my peers . 
After I justified to myself that I was right in thinking what happened to me was horrible , I confided in people I considered to be friends and I felt attacked by the victim blaming questions and statements . 
" Well , had you been drinking ? " 
" Are you sure you said no ? " 
" He probably did n't understand . 
Just let it go . " 
" Are you really considering ruining someone 's life over this ? " 
" Stop being overdramatic , stop playing the victim , and get over it . " 
I wanted to scream , " What about my life ? 
Why does he get to ruin my life ? 
Why should I have to carry this around by myself ? " 
We live in a culture that perpetuates rape . 
Many of us in the advocacy community assert this and are met with objections like , " That 's so stupid . 
No one thinks rape is okay except for rapists . " 
Unfortunately , this is not actually the case . 
You might not intentionally support perpetrators over survivors , but many of you manage to do so anyway . 
" What were you wearing ? " 
" How much did you drink ? " 
" Why were you walking home alone ? " 
" Did you scream ? " 
These are all common victim blaming questions . 
These questions make us doubt ourselves . 
We do n't doubt that the event occurred ; we doubt that we are blameless for what happened . 
Victim-blaming takes the responsibility away from the perpetrator and places it on the survivor , thereby re-victimizing him or her . 
When you re-victimize a survivor , you trigger them and cause them to relive the assault and the pain that comes with it . 
Many of us fear these questions that our society deem acceptable and choose not to report to protect ourselves . 
Many of you say you stand with survivors , but do you really ? 
Take some time and evaluate what you say and how you act in regard to this subject . 
Recognize any defensiveness you may feel upon reading this article and channel it toward making constructive change . 
As a survivor , it is so angering to see some of the same people who blame me for my rape speak out on how horrified they are by the way <PERSON>Jackie</PERSON> 's friends acted in the recently published Rolling Stone article . 
We all play a role in rape culture , and I hope this column serves as a wake-up call for those who are passive in countering it . 
This is a call to action . 
Recognize that this culture exists and actively work to change it . 
I support survivors , <DATE>today</DATE> and every day . 
Can you say this honestly too ? 
<PERSON>Emily Powell</PERSON> is a fourth-year in the College , a member of One Less and an intern for the Women 's Center 's Gender Violence and Social Change program . 
