In the past two weeks there has been incredible backlash against the decision by the national leaders of every sorority at the <ORGANIZATION>University</ORGANIZATION> to forbid girls from going out on Boys Bid Night . 
This command was given to sorority members through a formal letter , and the national leaders refused to engage in any sort of conversation about the ruling , even after many students requested a discussion . 
While I am not in a sorority , many of my friends are , and I was flooded with requests to sign a petition stating that sorority members should be allowed to go out for <ORGANIZATION>Boys Bid Night</ORGANIZATION> . 
The writers of the petition insisted the mandate was a violation of their rights and a suggestion " that women should not and can not exist in certain spaces . " 
I struggled when deciding whether to sign this petition . 
I absolutely agree it is ludicrous to forbid women from attending a party . 
It 's especially ridiculous to think this could in any way be a strong method of combatting sexual assault - you do n't solve crime by locking up potential victims . 
Still , the petition that 's been sent to me numerous times only targets the specific decision to keep sorority sisters away from Boys Bid Night , and I have to wonder if the real problem is much larger than one night . 
Most of my friends who have joined sororities rave about their experiences . 
They often tell me about the incredible friends they 've found , the women who inspire them , how safe they feel in their sisterhood . 
What 's odd to me , though , is that they always tell me how incredible their sororities are in spite of the rules they have to follow . 
I have heard many times how horrible rush is and watched my friends roll their eyes as they adhere to rules they all agree are ridiculous . 
What makes this frustrating is that fraternities have much more freedom . 
One of the most well-known examples is the fact that outside recruitment , fraternities can hold large parties with alcohol while sorority houses must be dry ( even though many sorority members have argued they would feel safer attending parties held at their own houses and run by women ) . 
The Greek system continues to use rules made long ago , despite the fact that today 's students have clearly outgrown such rules and the good old-fashioned sexism that fostered them . 
In the petition and other responses to the Boys Bid Night ban , sororities have urged national leaders to empower their members . 
It 's a valid request , but the national leaders have done little to empower sororities thus far - why would they start now ? 
From what the sorority sisters I know tell me , sororities at the <ORGANIZATION>University</ORGANIZATION> seem to thrive because of their members - the women within their chapters who work hard to create a good experience for every student who chooses to join . 
Perhaps it 's time for national leaders to take a cue from those women . 
Ditch the antiquated regulations , and start treating women with the trust and respect they deserve . 
The letter from national leaders only banned sorority members from going out on that one specific night , <DATE>Jan. 31</DATE> , so sororities are now free to attend parties as they choose , a sort of resolution to the issue . 
This <DATE>weekend</DATE> , sorority sisters will attend the parties from which they were temporarily forbidden , and the outrage will be over for now . 
Still , I doubt this is the last time national sorority leaders will issue a mandate attempting to limit the freedom of women . 
Sororities at <ORGANIZATION>the University</ORGANIZATION> ought to stop waiting for national leaders to empower them and ought instead to start empowering themselves . 
Sorority sisters should speak up and change the rules that are n't serving anyone but an outdated system . 
<PERSON>Nora Walls</PERSON> is a Viewpoint writer . 
