A former naval midshipman was recently found not guilty of sexually assaulting a female midshipman . 
A military judge issued the verdict , and also decided the <ORGANIZATION>Naval Academy</ORGANIZATION> should internally handle the additional charge of lying to investigators . 
The student has resigned from the <ORGANIZATION>Naval Academy</ORGANIZATION> in exchange for the <ORGANIZATION>Academy</ORGANIZATION> dropping that lesser charge . 
This case has raised questions about the nature of sexual assault at institutions of higher education . 
The judge who delivered the verdict identified such questions as , " how drunk is too drunk " and " how does one know when someone else is too drunk . " 
His verdict hinged upon the conclusion that the prosecutors did not meet their burden of proof . 
Some are calling this case a failure of the justice system to punish a sexual offender . 
And that may be true . 
But part of the reason sexual assault cases are difficult to prosecute is that sometimes there are not clear answers to the questions the judge in this case identified . 
In order to facilitate more positive legal outcomes for sexual assault victims in the future , and also to prevent future cases of sexual assault , we have to address the ambiguity of these questions and try to make their answers as clear as possible . 
In previous editorials we have discussed the importance of prevention over punishment of sexual assault , and the need for an " ask first " consent policy in addressing the issue of rape on college campuses . 
Now , we examine the issue of how alcohol consumption and intoxication level fits into the issue of rape . 
A woman is more likely to be assaulted on a college campus than any other location . 
Since alcohol is often involved in incidents of sexual assault , it is conceivable that the prevalence of drinking in college is a factor in the high rate of sexual assault on college campuses . 
Legally , if a person is intoxicated , the person can not consent to sex . 
But to assert that any sexual encounter which occurs when either party has consumed any alcohol is rape would be too broad of a definition . 
Drinking can be a positive social activity when done responsibly . 
In laying ground rules of acceptable conduct , we must be careful not to throw the baby out with the bathwater . 
There must be an explicit standard for what level of intoxication disqualifies a person from being able to consent . 
It is not reasonable to expect that before sex someone pulls out a breathalyzer . 
But it is reasonable to expect that both parties think before they act . 
Some arguments for our " ask first " consent policy model can apply here . 
We argued that an " ask first " standard of consent is based on the principle that no one should be presumed willing . 
Our vested interests should not be prioritized over respect for others ' personal autonomy . 
The same reasoning gives us cause not to presume someone is in a condition to consent to sex . 
We also argued that we must have open conversations about sexual intimacy in order to eliminate ambiguities surrounding consent . 
The same process should be used to establish appropriate boundaries when it comes to sexual encounters which involve alcohol . 
The most important principle to abide by is this : when in doubt , assume it 's a no . 
We need to formalize this mentality as the standard , rather than accepting a mentality that assumes a green light without confirming . 
That is the lesson we should take away from this case , to turn an unfortunate situation into tangible change for the future . 
