" So how do you get consent without making it awkward ? " 
Blank stares . 
Some guys shift uncomfortably in their chairs . 
I have just told a room of 18-year-old men that the state of <LOCATION>Virginia</LOCATION> legally defines effective consent as " the presence of a yes , not the absence of a no . " 
How we go about getting to yes is the topic of conversation . 
" You just kinda feel it out , ya know ? 
Like , you feel the mood , and make your move ... " The laughter in the room ranges from uncomfortable to relieved , and we get a valuable glimpse of the way we men think about sex : you get a sense of the playing field , and then you move . 
Like football . 
Like chess . 
The guys who think about sex as football probably have more sex than those who think about it like chess , or at least so they would have us believe . 
Either way , the woman is our opponent ; we have to maneuver the situation to where she 's willing to " give it up . " 
Then we can " get some . " 
Out of renewed silence , another hand creeps up . 
" Ask if you should get a condom ? " 
Nods of assent . 
This seems reasonable . 
You still look certain , masculine and your intentions are pretty clear . 
This young man has identified the most important element of consent : opening a space for your partner to communicate a decision with confidence that you will respect it . 
I often say when I 'm talking to groups like these , " if someone wants to have sex with you , and you ask her permission , that probably will not change her mind . " 
I 've been involved in One in Four since <DATE>2011</DATE> . 
An all-male group , we spend our days speaking to men around U.Va . 
about consent , supporting survivors , and bystander intervention . 
About how what we say affects how we think . 
These are all related , and the most important part of our work is demonstrating to the men we meet that sexual violence is not just a women 's issue . 
It is a human issue . 
We take our name from the fact that one out of every four college-aged women in <LOCATION>America</LOCATION> has survived rape or attempted rape since her <DATE>14th birthday</DATE> . 
One in four . 
Look around your next lecture hall . 
Look at one of the long tables at <ORGANIZATION>Newcomb</ORGANIZATION> or O-Hill . 
Look around the dance floor at <ORGANIZATION>Trinity</ORGANIZATION> . 
One out of every four women you see has brushed far closer to this darkness than they would ever let on to you , the casual stranger . 
But it goes beyond that . 
One in every 12 men have been sexually assaulted . 
Every survivor has friends and family who love them and are forever changed by the process of helping them recover . 
If they even get the chance to help . 
Many survivors fear they will not be believed , and tell no one to save themselves the pain of putting their story on trial . 
Only <PERCENT>5 percent</PERCENT> of rapes are reported to the police , meaning that the suffering of sexual violence is borne most immediately by its survivors and their families , and offenders carry on with impunity . 
This issue pervades our lives , and yet remains unaddressed , festering in an atmosphere of suspicion and fear . 
This brings us back to that room of 18-year-olds who may have been afraid to come to our presentation because they do n't want to be accused of being rapists . 
None of this will ever stop unless we can have a conversation about it . 
But it 's about more than just talking . 
When young men grow up having their first sexual encounters with computer screens , and young girls swim in the crosscurrents of sexualized marketing and values-based sex ed , how do you drag sex out of the netherworld of cultural discomfort ? 
The twin messages of " you should want sex ! " 
and " do n't you go having sex ! " 
are too much for anyone to bear , and create a toxic environment where we do n't know what to expect , often drowning our uncertainty in alcohol before diving in . 
We live in a society that is sexually traumatizing down to its very language , so how are we supposed to talk in an open , healthy way about sex , much less sexual trauma ? 
It 's a movement with no center , a revolution with no leader . 
It has to be a change in consciousness that emerges individually in thousands of different minds across the university and far beyond . 
It comes from people who make a choice not to be afraid . 
It comes from asking someone who says " that test raped me " to choose another word . 
It comes from believing a survivor when he or she tells you a story of suffering , and offering yourself as a support on the path to recovery . 
It means having a conversation , a dialogue , not just having sex . 
Only by being unafraid can we help others define their expectations and articulate a new conversation . 
<PERSON>Matt Menezes</PERSON> is a second-year graduate student in the <ORGANIZATION>Batten School</ORGANIZATION> and the president of One in Four . 
