The <ORGANIZATION>U.S. Department of Education</ORGANIZATION> published the final rules for executing changes to the Clery Act <DATE>Monday</DATE> . 
These changes have been discussed by the department since <DATE>June</DATE> , and now that they have been finalized , will go into effect <DATE>July 2015</DATE> , though universities will be encouraged to make a " good faith effort " to follow the rules even before that date . 
According to Inside Higher Ed , the most significant change is that colleges and universities will be required to disclose " the number of reported crimes which were investigated but determined to be unfounded " for the past three calendar years and for every year in the future . 
Other new rules include requirements to report incidents of stalking , dating violence and domestic violence , adding nationality and gender-identity to consideration for hate-crimes , and allowing both the accused and the accuser to have advisers with them during disciplinary proceedings . 
The most significant change in the policy - requiring " unfounded " crime reports to be disclosed - was portrayed by <PERSON>Lynn Mahaffie</PERSON> , acting assistant secretary for postsecondary education , as a measure which " allows us to better monitor what crimes are being reported , see the extent that reporting is being abused , and provide technical assistance . " 
But a high number of complaints which are unfounded probably would not indicate " abuse of the system , " especially since certain crimes have such low reporting rates . 
Though the Clery Act applies to all crime on campuses , the renewal of the Violence Against Women act is what prompted the most recent changes . 
Sexual assault , which is perhaps the most commonly discussed crime against college women , has remarkably low reporting rates , and the incidence of false reports nationally is low . 
Hopefully , if the <ORGANIZATION>Department of Education</ORGANIZATION> notices a university determines a high number of sexual assault complaints to be unfounded , they use that as reason to question the college 's processes , not the students ' claims . 
There is more reason to use this rule to scrutinize the institutions ' practices , especially with so many universities under investigation for mishandling sexual assault cases . 
With these changes come not only a continued focus on sexual assault , but also a new emphasis on other forms of sexual misconduct , such as stalking and dating violence . 
Requiring colleges to report these different types of incidents rightly responds to statistics which reveal other ways college women are often victimized . 
At least three in 10 college women have been stalked , and about the same percentage say they have been in an abusive relationship . 
These crimes threaten women 's safety on campuses and deserve as much as attention as sexual assault . 
The rule which allows both parties to have advisers in disciplinary proceedings prevents an institution from restricting what kind of adviser a student can have , though it can still restrict the role the adviser can play . 
Having an adviser is essential for students who go through an adjudication process ; testifying at a hearing and facing an assailant in person can re-traumatize a sexual assault survivor , and just having a person to accompany her through the process can alleviate that burden . 
The promise of an adviser may encourage more student survivors to file complaints . 
And to ensure fairness , the accused students should have the same opportunities as the accusers . 
The concern about this rule is the possibility of students having attorneys as their advisers . 
Students who have less financial resources may be at a disadvantage in this respect . 
But the school can still prohibit advisers from speaking to the adjudicating panel during the proceedings , minimizing the legal expertise that a wealthy student could take advantage of . 
The role of the adviser should be supportive , not argumentative . 
Sexual misconduct board proceedings are not run like criminal trials . 
Overall , the Clery Act changes reflect how the federal government has taken responsibility over addressing the problem of sexual misconduct on college campuses . 
It remains to be seen whether universities will exert their best efforts to follow the new regulations , but hopefully the incentives from <ORGANIZATION>Department of Education</ORGANIZATION> will prompt changes in institutions that have demonstrated obvious shortcomings when dealing with this very serious issue . 
