I 'd like to think of myself as a survivor . 
In middle school , I flew mostly under the radar . 
One time , when I was eight , I lost my footing on a snapped , dead branch while climbing ; it only ended up being a five-foot fall and a bruised tailbone . 
My knees and elbows are speckled with odd , white shapes , leftover scars from pogo-sticking on still slick driveways after rain . 
And I 've completed the gallon challenge . 
But when I was 16 and in high school and wore floor-length butterfly skirts , I believed that anyone who could possibly even have the slightest afterthought of dating me was a miracle from God . 
When he came along , I was just getting over the emotional impact of being told by another male classmate that I looked like a horse at the homecoming dance . 
We were snacking on pretzels in a parking lot and I said yes . 
It was a two-year relationship . 
It was sitting in an open courtroom with arsonists and traffic violation vigilantes . 
It was a twice-a-week copay and trauma treatment . 
It was the fetal position behind the dresser and the way my mother held me close for two-and-a-half years after . 
But if I come back to the opening of this piece , I guess I should add that I am also a survivor of intimate partner violence in various forms . 
I do n't think that throwing a statistic at you about how many people this affects every year is particularly impactful . 
It 's a fleeting factoid that I highly doubt covers a number of unreported cases . 
Nor will I share the ins and outs of exactly what happened to me - for my own sake , but also for yours . 
As a <ORGANIZATION>University</ORGANIZATION> community we , for a time , become infuriated ( as we should ) when <ORGANIZATION>University Police</ORGANIZATION> Chief <PERSON>Michael Gibson</PERSON> sends us an incident report of sexual assault . 
We are quick to jump at the Office of the Dean of Students and the policies of the <ORGANIZATION>Sexual Misconduct Board</ORGANIZATION> - we 'll even be so bold as to leave nasty comments on cavalierdaily.com . 
But , in the midst of all this finger pointing and name-dropping about who should n't have showered and which dean is most responsible , the actual perpetrator finds his ( or her ) quick exit off center stage . 
Whistling , he ( or she ) hops on the next train out of town while the victim/survivor is left still trying to pick up her ( or his ) own pieces , dodging bullets in the university turf war . 
We 've exhausted policy and worked extensively on prevention ; but I think we have yet to give back that which was taken : agency . 
So perhaps I was too firm . 
I 'll share a little bit of my story - the significant parts , the parts that are actually quite similar to that bruised tailbone and those odd , white scars - recovery . 
Trials and triggers I was diagnosed with PTSD when I stopped being able to sleep through the <TIME>night</TIME> . 
I think it may have also had to with the fact that earlier that week I bolted out of an English discussion - the kid who tried to sit down next to me had hands that were exactly like his . 
For the rest of the semester , we gave each other odd looks . 
I thought trauma was only for <ORGANIZATION>Iraq</ORGANIZATION> War veterans . 
From then on , it was just me and the eye movement desensitization and reprocessing machine ( <ORGANIZATION>EMDR</ORGANIZATION> ) on <DATE>Saturday</DATE> <TIME>mornings</TIME> . 
Nothing really did make me doubt the effectiveness of trauma treatment more than being asked to a ) watch a light move from left to right while b ) simultaneously being tapped on each knee by a specialist while c ) listening to ocean waves and an alternating click in the background all while d ) being asked to bring up my worst memories from the relationship . 
By now , you 'd think they would have found a less strange way to treat PTSD , but all I can say is , for the most part , it worked . 
No , it was absolutely not pleasant bringing those moments up to surface again . 
Sometimes it got so difficult that I squeezed my eyes shut and blindly swatted the " tapping specialist . " 
The notes from her on my chart are probably highly comical . 
But every <DATE>Saturday</DATE> I claimed a bit of my life back . 
That 's what made me feel better , not pinning it on faulty policy . 
The trajectory theory I think the beautiful part of recovery is that , in order to get there in the first place , I kind of had to hit rock bottom . 
I 'm positively horrendous at both math and physics , so just take this analogy as your " atypical , " probably incorrectly plotted trajectory . 
But I digress . 
In recovery trajectories , there is only one direction of motion , and that 's undoubtedly up . 
Some days will be slip-ups that include but are not limited to : swatting specialists , waking up with headaches , promising and then failing to keep the promise that this will be the day in which I finally bury any memory of him , making a sniffly call to mom , finding myself fire-breathing furious , now finding myself wallowing , self-pep-talking and then fetal positioning behind the dresser yet again . 
But overall , this trajectory has only one direction of motion . 
So there are dips in the path from time to time , but I 'm always headed up . 
I have to be . 
Recovery is n't perfect - it 's not a straight shot , a checked box and a pat on the back . 
It 's a full-time job of self-reconstruction . 
But what I 'm telling you is that after two-and-a-half years of treatment and <ORGANIZATION>EMDR</ORGANIZATION> , my laugh was so happy I could n't even recognize it as my own anymore . 
Getting back on the horse I have finally pieced myself back together again . 
When I share my story , I always say that if I could do my life over again , although painful , I would n't whisk this part away . 
I 'm a survivor of intimate partner violence for a reason . 
I believe that , in life , we do not get the people that we want , but rather the people that we need - be they those who give us compassion or those who teach us more unpleasant lessons . 
I was born too compassionate , because my purpose is to empower others . 
But I still slip up from time to time . 
And trust me , the most terrifying thing in the world right now is the thought of trying again with someone else . 
I have ditched the butterfly skirts and I 'm fairly confident that I , in fact , no longer resemble a horse at the homecoming dance ( I would , however , like to get back on the dating horse ) . 
I think that for right now , it 's more a matter of breathing deeply and knowing that the next person who comes along will also be someone who I " need . " 
He 's bound to teach me something about myself again , but I 'm confident that this time it wo n't be such an extreme lesson . 
Throughout my recovery process , I pleaded with my treatment team about how I did n't want this experience to define me . 
But it does define me ; and when I went up to the front of that courtroom to sign that Permanent Protective Order in front of the handle-bar mustached judge , I knew my life would never be the same again . 
I did n't choose to be a victim , because then he 'd win . 
I picked myself up from the fetal position and sat in a plastic-covered , floral chair on <DATE>Saturdays</DATE> , watching lights - making sure I 'd be the one who survived . 
<PERSON>Sandra Menendez</PERSON> is a third-year College student . 
