The other day my roommate came home in an outrage . 
She had been to the first day of her women 's literature class , where they spent the 50 minutes talking about misconceptions of feminism . 
After coming to the conclusion that feminists were not , after all , man-hating " feminazis , " the class took a poll : Who now would call themselves a feminist ? 
My roommate was the only one to raise her hand . 
" Can you believe that , <PERSON>Kathryn</PERSON> ? 
And it was a women 's literature class ! " 
Although that story makes me snarl in disgust , I can not say it surprises me . 
Many college-aged women today are afraid to identify themselves as feminists because of what they think the word connotes : radical asexual women who never would wear lipstick or date men . 
Even women who can see beyond that stereotype sometimes hesitate to adopt the feminist label . 
I have a friend who , in many ways , is more of a feminist than anyone I know . 
She is independent and outspoken , passionately connected to women 's political and social issues . 
Yet she will not call herself a feminist . 
" Feminism means something that I am uncomfortable with . " 
Well then , what does feminism mean ? 
The feminist community has yet to come up with a cohesive definition . 
There are as many flavors of feminisim as there are degrees of Democrats . 
Dissension and controversy exist among the larger feminist umbrella just as they do in a political party . 
Feminists disagree about the cause of women 's oppression . 
Some attribute women 's position in society today to class , others attribute it to gender roles , still others attribute it to the patriarchy . 
Logically , feminists also disagree about how women can liberate and empower themselves . 
Should society completely shed gender roles to become a world of androgynous people ? 
Should women work inside the already established gender framework to guarantee their political and economic equality ? 
No one " feminist " answer to those questions exists . 
At the most basic level , feminists agree that women have been and are oppressed . 
Reversing that oppression is their goal . 
The tactics different feminists adopt vary , some being more radical than others . 
Seen this way , feminism becomes not some frightening , hard-line belief system , but the simple idea that women deserve the same opportunities men possess . 
That idea should speak to any woman who has been sexually harassed , to any woman teased because she was a tomboy throughout elementary school , to any woman suffering from an eating disorder . 
That idea should speak even to a woman who never has had to grapple with problems directly related to her gender . 
The fact that inequities exist between the genders should be enough to make any woman , and any man , call her/himself a feminist . 
There is a difference between calling oneself a feminist and being a feminist . 
Although my roommate was the only one in her class to raise her hand when asked " who would now call themselves a feminist ? 
, " I doubt she was the only feminist in her class . 
I do not think I know any women who would disagree that women deserve the same opportunities as men . 
Everywhere , I see evidence of the pull the idea of feminism has on college-aged women . 
This <DATE>summer</DATE> the all female Lilith Fair sold out . 
Could it be because the voices of all those female performers ( <PERSON>Sarah McLachlan</PERSON> , <PERSON>Mary Chapin Carpenter</PERSON> and Jewel among others ) speak to women in a way that other bands in the male-dominated music industry ca n't ? 
Was n't the concert itself a feminist event ? 
On a more local level , one could see the <ORGANIZATION>University</ORGANIZATION> 's sorority system as a feminist institution . 
Sororities are groups of women , united by the idea of sisterhood and a common purpose . 
They provide women with leadership opportunities and an all-female forum where subjects like sexual harassment and eating disorders are addressed with frequency and sensitivity . 
Of course , another feminist could demolish my two examples : the Lilith Fair could be seen as a complacent reaction to women not being included in mainstream tours , which is where they belong , right next to the men . 
And one can see sororities not as groups of women bonding together , but as an institution that is on the whole subservient to the male counterpart fraternity . 
Here again is dissension among what different women consider to be manifestations of feminism . 
But I would argue that the women I see around me -- running for student offices , debating passionately in their history classes , running marathons , editing University publications -- understand both the necessity and the fervor of feminism . 
So , if women are feminists ( even if they would not say so themselves ) , why does it matter that they do not call themselves feminists ? 
This issue is not one of semantics but of unity and power . 
Adopting the name " feminist " allows women to find other women who also call themselves feminists . 
It allows women who believe in the same things to seek each other out . 
Rejecting the name " feminist " allows opponents of women 's rights to continue and demonize the word , and thereby demonize the concept . 
The idea that a woman could not want to identify herself with women 's rights is what shocked me so much about my roommate 's English class . 
Feminism will lose the stereotype that scares many women away only when those same women start to embrace the word . 
It 's a tricky circle that needs to start somewhere . 
No one should be ashamed to call her/himself a feminist . 
There is nothing shameful about believing in equal rights . 
( <PERSON>Kathryn Hamilton</PERSON> 's column appears <DATE>Thursdays</DATE> in The Cavalier Daily . ) 
( C ) <DATE>1999</DATE> Cavalier Daily via U-WIRE 
