Photo provided by <PERSON>Lauren Jackson Lauren</PERSON> 's column runs biweekly <DATE>Fridays</DATE> . 
She can be reached at l.jackson@cavalierdaily.com At dinner with friends the other night , I posed the question , " If you could only pick one issue to address for the rest of your life , what would it be ? " 
The responses ranged across continents and species . 
Questions of economics , ethics and sustainability arose . 
Finally , after all interests had been professed , my friends turned to me , saying , " Wait <PERSON>Lauren</PERSON> , you asked this , but you have n't answered it . " 
My answer was short : " I want to work every day of my life to end the sexual abuse of women and girls across the globe . " 
Unlike the group 's responses to previous answers , I was met with an uncomfortable silence . 
In its wake , I added , " Most obviously by abating the pernicious tide of sex trafficking , working to elevate the social status of women in the developing world and ensuring equal access to education . 
It 's just really important . 
And there is nothing I feel more passionately about . " 
Despite my efforts to provide ample avenues for responsive inquiry , there was continued silence . 
Finally , one of my friends who had lived in <LOCATION>Southeast Asia</LOCATION> for two years said , " Sex trafficking is a huge problem in <LOCATION>Cambodia</LOCATION> . " 
He did n't quite know how to respond to my statement , but he desired to connect with my passion and to turn my feelings into something relatable for him . 
Another guy at the table quipped , " Yeah , but it ca n't be as big of a problem as saving the elephants . " 
Everyone at the table laughed . 
However , I took the immediate opportunity to say , " Guys , when I bring up issues surrounding gender equality , people frequently respond with jokes . 
Why is that ? " 
Another uncomfortable silence ensued , until finally one of my male friends said , " It 's because we 're trying to diffuse tension ... and I guess we want to distance ourselves from members of our gender who are in the wrong . 
By joking about it , we think we 're making it clear that we are n't that guy . " 
Unlike the other social issues placed on the table that night for consideration , the topic of sexual abuse closed many conversational doors . 
The discussion of sexual abuse rarely invites open dialogue , perhaps because it is something not readily seen or acknowledged - something that happens behind closed doors . 
The confrontation is unfamiliar and uncomfortable for many who do n't know how to grapple with the magnitude of the injustice they feel for the subject . 
Surprisingly , when I place such issues on the table and in the light , I am met with a response that is both discrediting and disregarding : humor . 
I am not talking about malicious jokes or pointed , oppositional replies . 
I am talking about a very specific kind of humor that I have seen men utilize to distance themselves from the guilty of their gender but nonetheless makes light of something I take very seriously . 
After dinner , my friend approached me and apologized for making light of my comment . 
He admitted that he was not informed enough - or as informed as he felt he should have been - and was therefore not in the position to make a " substantial comment . " 
I told him simply listening and asking productive questions is the most important thing he can do . 
I told him instead of learning statistics , he should learn how to ask questions . 
I believe this is the first step in helping survivors - those seeking a safe space to express heart-breaking frustration - find an ally in their fight . 
I understand how difficult it is to engage in discussions on issues one does not feel they can empathize with , but that does n't mean the conversation should be avoided or the subject should be made light of . 
Appreciate the passion and investment others place on such issues . 
If you do n't know about them , do n't be ashamed to admit it . 
Ask to be informed and invite others to expound upon their opinions and I assure you they will respond positively . 
I believe those who will make headway in this tragically large field are those who have personal experience with the matter and can empathize with victims and survivors . 
But they ca n't do it alone . 
They need the help of many - especially those who may not have a personal experience related to the subject . 
Building this community of activists is difficult and takes time . 
Many victims do n't want to discuss their feelings or experiences publicly , which is both understandable and completely acceptable . 
But many do . 
And they need people willing to listen and hearts ready to be turned to a cause that deserves our utmost attention . 
These people deserve our respect , our attention and our open , honest questions that will give them a platform to be heard - the most powerful gift we can give to someone . 
So , the next time a friend expresses frustration toward a sexist comment or experience , allow yourself to be vulnerable enough to ask questions . 
Give people the merit their passion deserves , and do n't make light of it - even in the most good-natured way . 
Lauren 's column runs biweekly <DATE>Fridays</DATE> . 
She can be reached at l.jackson@cavalierdaily.com 
