Recently , <ORGANIZATION>Dartmouth College</ORGANIZATION> made headlines with its president 's new plan to ban hard alcohol on campus . 
This initiative has prompted discussion on the extent of schools ' regulation of students , as colleges grapple with the fine line between treating students like the adults they are and still maintaining restrictions - which are absolutely necessary - on their activities . 
As the dangers of binge drinking , hazing and sexual assault become more apparent , it appears colleges are opting to take on the in loco parentis role they held in the past . 
But restricting students ' independence rarely results in tangible benefits for schools or students . 
For one , restrictions are only worth their level of enforcement : as <ORGANIZATION>The Dartmouth Editorial Board</ORGANIZATION> writes , first-year students at <ORGANIZATION>Dartmouth</ORGANIZATION> are already forbidden from consuming hard alcohol , yet clearly they do so regardless . 
But even with strict enforcement of such policies , harsh restrictions can serve only to push student activity underground , making students even less safe . 
Students will find ways , no matter what , to enjoy themselves as they see fit - especially as 18-year-olds entering college gain a sense of freedom that naturally accompanies leaving home . 
Given the chance of punishment , students will simply opt not to seek help in situations of excessive drinking or other crises - the opposite of the intended result of <ORGANIZATION>Dartmouth</ORGANIZATION> 's policy . 
Excessive regulation is ineffective , but another damaging effect is its potential for stifling students ' independence , which can in turn stifle their ability to mature in general . 
College students undoubtedly need guidance in many spheres . 
But higher education is intended to be a stepping stone between childhood and adulthood - preparation for entering adult society and taking on social and financial responsibility . 
If students are patronized or coddled , how can they expect to be prepared for life post-graduation ? 
Paradoxically , students may develop even worse habits than they would have given a greater amount of independence ; by sweeping their activities under the rug , they may engage in behaviors that are detrimental to their physical and emotional health . 
Of course , any discussion of the restriction of student autonomy naturally reminds us of the <ORGANIZATION>National Panhellenic Conference</ORGANIZATION> 's recent request that sorority chapters refrain from participating in Boy 's Bid Night , though this is not a case of a university acting in loco parentis . 
Here at <ORGANIZATION>the University</ORGANIZATION> , we place a large emphasis on the sometimes-lofty concept of student self-governance . 
Despite some areas of concern , we have seen many successes due to the large amount of responsibility afforded to the student body . 
Precisely because our <ORGANIZATION>University</ORGANIZATION> has emphasized student autonomy , the outcry against external restrictions was immediate : a group of <ORGANIZATION>University</ORGANIZATION> women , typically empowered by the privileges our school affords them , were disrespected by a policy that dictated their actions instead of seeking pragmatic solutions to the issue at hand . 
College students are by no means prepared to live together without rules or authority . 
But colleges seem to opt for extremist policies in order to squash the problems that can stem from students ' adjustments to their newfound freedoms , and these extremist policies have not proven effective . 
College is intended to be a time of personal and intellectual growth , but students can not grow if they are not given the room to do so . 
Low expectations breed low-quality results , and policies that too drastically regulate students imply distrust in them . 
When students are encouraged to hold themselves and their peers accountable within appropriate limits , they can rise to the occasion . 
