In the aftermath of the release of Rolling Stone 's article , anger has transformed into violence . 
<ORGANIZATION>Phi Kappa Psi</ORGANIZATION> 's fraternity house was vandalized <DATE>Thursday</DATE> - bricks thrown through windows and graffiti spray painted . 
The people who claimed to have vandalized the house also sent a statement to several news outlets with a list of radical demands , which included making rape a single sanction offense and the resignation of Dean <PERSON>Nicole Eramo</PERSON> . 
In our editorial yesterday , we encouraged the community to channel its anger into constructive change . 
This behavior , however , is destructive , not constructive . 
Responding to an act of violence with more violence only continues the cycle we so desperately need to break . 
Now more than ever , we need to support survivors . 
As tempting as it is to lash out against their attackers , this reaction is not a form of support . 
It is a retaliation using all the mechanisms - dehumanization , defamation and physical destruction - which caused their initial pain . 
Though the perpetrators of these crimes undoubtedly must be punished , the way to reach that end is to applaud and encourage the students who have been and will be brave enough to speak out about their victimization , so they can get justice . 
We need to start building , not breaking . 
Too many of our own community members are already broken . 
As a whole , we are already questioning our pride in the <ORGANIZATION>University</ORGANIZATION> community , given that this terrible tragedy occurred here . 
We want to reshape this community into one we can be proud of again , but this will not be possible if people are resorting to vandalism as a response to this incident . 
Rather than channeling anger into destructive behaviors , we ought to channel it into self-education , thoughtful group discussion and reflection . 
These processes require patience which may be difficult to find at a time when we are overwhelmed by a torrent of visceral emotions . 
But it is necessary if we are going to get some momentum going in a positive direction . 
We may not know exactly where to start in times like these , especially if we previously have not given significant thought to the issue , or have no basis of knowledge , logistical or personal , on the subject . 
But student leaders in our community who had already been working tirelessly on this issue before the story ever came to light in <ORGANIZATION>Rolling Stone</ORGANIZATION> will help to provide us with a starting place . 
A good set of demands or goals does not come out of a violent emotional reaction . 
It comes out of a combination of emotion , research , careful examination of current practice and culture , and open dialogue . 
Let us combine all of those necessary elements , abandon destructive behavior , and go about this change in a way that we can all be proud of . 
