<ORGANIZATION>Clemson University</ORGANIZATION> has suspended a mandatory online training program about Title IX after receiving many complaints from students that survey-type questions in the program were too personal . 
Some questions asked students how many times they 'd engaged in sexual activity in the last three months , and with how many partners . 
One student told Campus Reform " I have [ no ] issue with being trained on Title IX ... I have an issue with the personal questions that are asked . " 
This sentiment is understandable , as there is no clear connection between students ' personal sex lives and Title IX . 
However , there is a connection between sexual violence and Title IX , because the prevalence of sexual violence on a college campus can be categorized as a form of sex discrimination . 
<ORGANIZATION>Clemson University</ORGANIZATION> advertised this program as an educational assignment , but the questions about personal sexual encounters do not contribute to a student 's understanding of the law . 
Title IX is about institutional practices ; it is not concerned with private lives . 
It seems as though <PERSON>Clemson</PERSON> did not clearly establish the purpose of its online educational program . 
If it really was to educate students on Title IX , it should have solely presented information about the law , and about the university 's procedures to comply with the law , and then quizzed the students on such information . 
However , the questions contained in the program made it seem more like a climate survey , aiming to garner information about students ' experiences . 
Nobody has come forward saying the program included questions about sexual violence or about consent , only about sexual activity and drug use . 
If <ORGANIZATION>Clemson</ORGANIZATION> aims to collect information about students ' practices that is in any way related to its Title IX obligations , it should collect information about sexual assault . 
Asking about the number of sexual partners a student has had does nothing to gauge information about the prevalence of sexual misconduct at a university . 
An example of a relevant question is if a student has ever had a non-consensual sexual encounter , and how many times if it occurred more than once . 
Part of the <ORGANIZATION>University</ORGANIZATION> 's new strategy for combatting sexual misconduct is to distribute climate surveys to students , " which will study the prevalence of sexual misconduct at <ORGANIZATION>the University</ORGANIZATION> and the efficacy of certain measures against it . " 
In developing such climate surveys , universities must maintain a balance between their obligation to assess their students ' safety and their obligations to protect student privacy . 
Students should not be required to answer questions which they feel uncomfortable answering , but in order to get a good sample of information , it is reasonable to require all students to complete a climate survey . 
To alleviate concerns , when faced with personal questions students can select an option which reads " I prefer not to answer . " 
Students at <ORGANIZATION>Clemson</ORGANIZATION> also raised concerns that their answers to the question are not truly anonymous , as the university claimed . 
Logging in with student IDs is a way of ensuring that all students complete the program , but it should not be necessary for them to provide any additional information , and universities should take care to ensure names are not ultimately attached to answers . 
It is crucial that all universities conduct climate surveys , as well as educate students about what resources are available to them . 
Clemson , it seems , combined multiple objectives into one program , did not clearly outline such objectives and did not thoroughly explain the purpose of the questions , which created confusion and frustration among the students . 
Tackling the issue of sexual misconduct may require asking personal questions , as with tackling the issue of alcohol and drug abuse , and many universities already conduct surveys and require training modules for the latter . 
It is important that students know their universities are on their side - that the institution asks such questions because it is primarily concerned with their safety . 
Clemson missed the mark this time around , but with greater attention to detail the university could accomplish its goal , with less resistance from the students it aims to serve . 
