When a discussion is entitled " Abortion : A Woman 's Perspective , " many would expect a talk highlighting both sides of the abortion debate to clarify a " woman 's perspective . " 
But because <PERSON>Hoos</PERSON> for Life hosted <DATE>last Wednesday</DATE> 's discussion on this topic it was , as expected , biased . 
The discussion , which featured a post-abortive woman and a practicing physician , seemed to focus on the question , " Is abortion good for women ? " 
The flaw in choosing this focus for the discussion is that not many individuals , even abortion proponents , actually believe abortion is " good . " 
Until pro-lifers realize the issue of abortion is a matter of choice and not a matter of good and evil , these discussions will only continue to polarize both sides of the debate . 
The discussion opened with a woman describing her personal experience with abortion , which she described as the " murder of [ her ] own baby . " 
She had been raped while engaged to her current husband and chose to abort the pregnancy because of the unknown paternity of her child . 
She discussed her experience with post-abortive stress and a sadness that never really went away . 
She spoke from the heart and said she believes all women will suffer from an abortion . 
But the entire time she spoke , I was struck by how she connected all of the depression she felt after the abortion with the abortion itself and not by the rape that resulted in the abortion . 
Not one time did she discuss healing the wounds of rape and not one time did she discuss how this could have affected her mental condition . 
For many individuals , keeping a rapist 's baby would have resulted in similar stress and depression , a situation that would harm both the unwanted child as well as the mother . 
But Dr. <PERSON>Karen Poehailos</PERSON> does not believe abortion is ever the best option for women , not even in situations of rape or when endangering the life of the mother . 
She provided medical expertise on the topic and informed us that she believes forcing the delivery of a dead baby to save the mother 's life is better than purposely killing the baby to save the mother 's life . 
She prefaced this answer by referring to herself as a Catholic and reminding us that she is morally opposed to abortion . 
And yet , she was supposed to be the medical voice of the discussion . 
Sure , she discussed all of the short-term and long-term consequences of abortions , such as physical issues like bleeding , low-weight births and an increased risk for breast cancer , and the mental consequences like Post-Abortive Stress Syndrome , even suicide . 
But she made sure to emphasize throughout her entire presentation that the pro-choice community is providing misguiding data that is misleading women into " hideous " abortions . 
Pro-choice individuals do not believe abortion is " good for women 's health , " as <ORGANIZATION>Poehailos</ORGANIZATION> says they do . 
And few argue vehemently that " abortion is safer than childbirth , " another myth <PERSON>Poehailos</PERSON> says permeates our society . 
Abortion should never be anyone 's first choice in birth control , and it should never be abused by women as a viable replacement for responsible sexual practices . 
But the issue <PERSON>Hoos</PERSON> for Life ignored in its discussion is the very important issue of a woman 's right to choose to weigh the pros and cons of such a decision for herself . 
Few women look forward to an abortion , and all women should be provided with the health information Poehailos provided in her discussion . 
We can not ignore the harmful consequences of abortion , and we can not treat it like just another medical procedure , as it has complications all its own . 
But all women deserve the right to be in control of their own bodies . 
Poehailos says some abortion proponents treat abortion as a method of genetic engineering to get rid of children from crisis pregnancies that are more prevalent in minorities and people of lower socioeconomic backgrounds . 
But she did not discuss the huge issue of unwanted children and our broken foster-care system . 
It is unfair to a child to be born into an environment where the mother can not provide for her child . 
It is also unfair to a mother to carry an unwanted child to term just to put it up for adoption when there are already so many unwanted children in this country . 
Abortion is not purely an issue of medicine , and it is not an issue that everyone can or should agree upon . 
It is intensely personal and intensely private , and whether abortion opponents can believe it , not every woman wants to have children . 
Poehailos said she had " never had a woman who did n't look at the floor " when telling her she had had an abortion . 
And after hearing her views , I know why . 
( C ) <DATE>2007</DATE> Cavalier Daily via U-WIRE 
