First , let me point out a few things about the intent of this column . 
I am responding to the decision of <ORGANIZATION>Tufts University</ORGANIZATION> to deny <PERSON>Carl Sciortino Jr.</PERSON> the right to live with someone of the opposite sex because he is gay . 
So to begin let 's look at the sometimes inherent problems with the current system . 
Sciortino has been lobbying Tufts administrators to open same-sex dorms to coeducational living . 
He argues that the current policy creates possibly " difficult living situations because of homophobia and harassment . " 
No one can debate the fact that in some instances , this is the case . 
For those of you out there who are not members of the lgbt ( lesbian , gay , bisexual and transgender ) community , how many of you would feel comfortable living with a roommate who is not heterosexual ? 
For those of you who say it wo n't be a problem , I applaud you , but the harsh reality is that I know that there are plenty who are squirming at the thought . 
Also for many of you it might be the first time you thought about it . 
When you moved in first year , the last thing you thought about was whether your roommate was gay . 
Maybe that means it does n't matter , or maybe it points to the heterosexism that lgbt students are faced with daily . 
Speaking from experience , as an openly gay student here , I know quite a few lgbt students , including myself , who had difficulties coming out to their straight same-sex roommates . 
My biggest battle was not that I did n't feel like my roommates would accept me , it was that I had always felt my room was a safe place for me , and being gay , living with a same-sex straight roommate , I was worried that this assumption would be challenged . 
Back to the issue at hand . 
I would argue that the major motivation for changing policy is allowing the students the right to choose . 
These students , who are legal adults , should be allowed to choose the roommate that is right for them , regardless of sex or sexual orientation . 
These adults make responsible decisions on a daily basis . 
Why should n't one of them be whom they live with ? 
Tuft 's policy currently prohibits discrimination against students based on sex and sexual orientation . 
In addition , there is nothing in their policies stating sex is a reason to restrict roommate choices . 
On a larger scale , other colleges and universities have also already adopted this policy . 
<ORGANIZATION>Wesleyan University</ORGANIZATION> , <ORGANIZATION>Antioch College and Hampshire College</ORGANIZATION> permit co-ed roommates in multiple occupancy rooms . 
These schools already have shown how co-ed living can , and does , work . 
They can provide a model for other schools to adopt similar policies . 
There are also schools that unofficially permit students to make co-ed roommate choices , but who have not changed formal policy . 
There are obviously alternatives to living with a same-sex roommate . 
One could live with a same-sex gay roommate , live alone or live off-campus . 
I agree that these are alternatives , but should n't another alternative be to choose to live with someone of the opposite sex , because it makes you feel safe ? 
To many , this alternative makes sense . 
At the very least , it makes no less sense to allow this as an alternative living situation . 
There are plenty of arguments in opposition to mine . 
They come from all different people . 
The argument from the administration is that it will work with students to find an alternative . 
The argument from some in the queer community is that it perpetuates stereotypes , and does nothing to get to the real problem , which is the homophobia that exists . 
What these arguments fail to look at is the students ' right to choose a place that is safe for them . 
Now let 's bring this article back home . 
Here we are students at <ORGANIZATION>the University of Virginia</ORGANIZATION> . 
Admittedly , we are not the most progressive school , and I think that if the same proposition were made here it would meet equal opposition from the powers-that-be . 
Unlike Tufts , however , we do not have a resource center for lgbt students . 
We do n't have paid staff for lgbt concerns . 
We are way behind them in progressive policies for lgbt students . 
But unlike them , we have n't had any violent acts against lgbt students in my four years here . 
Though the issue of co-ed dorms may seem removed from us , it is actually much closer than we think . 
I would argue that for the University the first step is to start developing policies in other areas , such as resources for lgbt students and hiring staff to lobby for our concerns . 
We , the lgbt community , have many battles to be fought -- coed dorms are just the beginning . 
( C ) <DATE>2000</DATE> Cavalier Daily via U-WIRE 
