Today , the <ORGANIZATION>University Board of Elections</ORGANIZATION> will release the results of student elections for the next academic year , including who will become the next <ORGANIZATION>Honor Committee</ORGANIZATION> representatives . 
With this transition in leadership , based on our conversations with candidates during endorsement interviews , Honor will likely take a stronger role in broader conversations happening around Grounds , aiming to serve as the collective moral compass of our school . 
We encourage the new <ORGANIZATION>Committee</ORGANIZATION> , instead , to first focus on strengthening its response to the moral precepts within its purview - lying , cheating and stealing . 
Many candidates who interviewed with us prior to elections spoke of unconventional ways of promoting the ideal of the " community of trust " - a worthy goal . 
The challenge , they said , was in reaching out to students who are otherwise apathetic to the honor system . 
For many , the way to reach out to apathetic students is by inserting " honor " into other conversations - such as the larger discussion of sexual assault , or other moral issues . 
Undeniably , the ideals that fall under the umbrella of the community of trust extend far beyond lying , cheating and stealing , and Honor may have a place in conversations outside that punitive domain . 
But the time for Honor to take on that role has not yet come . 
The students within Honor may be ready for Honor to have that role , since they already believe in the ideals Honor promotes and support a University-wide moral code . 
But for students who are apathetic to the moral code espoused by Honor or who are unpersuaded that the current system is effective or fair , Honor taking on a wider role will not diminish their apathy - nor will it promote a better community of trust . 
Instead , new <ORGANIZATION>Committee</ORGANIZATION> representatives must first address ongoing criticisms of the internal system . 
These include the spotlighting of minority and international students and possible dimming of non-minority students in reporting rates , the relative lack of diversity in Honor ( though this year 's support officer class was much more diverse than past ones ) and inconsistent trial outcomes , among many others . 
Honor 's role is adjudicative in nature , and if it is not successfully adjudicating cases because of disproportionate reporting , jury nullification or other reasons , the <ORGANIZATION>Committee</ORGANIZATION> and student body are not ready for Honor to expand its vision beyond this adjudicative role . 
If representatives hope for Honor to be the moral compass of the student body - no easy feat - they must first prove that their system can successfully handle the three tenets in its domain , which it currently does not . 
It has made significant improvements , of which the incorporation of the <ORGANIZATION>Informed Retraction</ORGANIZATION> is one . 
But there are many other improvements for Honor to make . 
Especially with the ongoing conversation surrounding the question of a multi-sanction system , Honor has much more to address before it can promote ideals greater than preventing lying , cheating and stealing . 
It is ambitious to suggest that one system could singlehandedly define and uphold the moral standards of our school . 
In order to do this , Honor must address its internal problems and , perhaps most importantly , be more representative of the student body , since currently Honor consists mostly of students of the same background and ideology about what the moral code and role of Honor should be . 
Once Honor has successfully addressed these major issues , it may be able to make the jump to focusing on external moral questions . 
But that end would be better served by future Committees , and not this upcoming one . 
For this term , our new representatives would be wise to focus on existing issues - or risk alienating disenchanted students even more . 
