As <ORGANIZATION>Harvard University</ORGANIZATION> opens its doors to the student body for classes , they also welcome a new sexual assault policy implemented over the <DATE>summer</DATE> . 
This new policy mandates that any " alleged victim of sexual assault " -- from unwanted touching to rape -- must " produce corroborating evidence " before the <ORGANIZATION>University</ORGANIZATION> will launch an investigation . 
Phrased in this manner , the implication is that a student would have to provide evidence before a presiding board would even deign to hear an accusation . 
Harvard 's new policy , rather than being well thought out and sensitive , effectively perpetuates the deeply rooted culture of both silence and shame that surrounds the issue of sexual assault . 
First of all , the language within this policy is immensely hurtful and damaging psychologically , leading any person educated in issues of sexual assault to believe that there was a lack of expert consultation initiated before the execution of this policy . 
In fact , the ad hoc committee selected to determine ways to delineate " un-provable " cases from " real " cases consisted of the Dean of the <ORGANIZATION>Graduate School of Arts and Sciences</ORGANIZATION> , a professor of Latin and a professor of <ORGANIZATION>Middle Eastern</ORGANIZATION> studies . 
The terminology of " alleged victim " immediately claims disbelief and skepticism toward any person having possibly experienced sexual assault . 
Even further , anyone who has been through an experience with assault should be referred to as a " survivor , " not a " victim " -- the term survivor empowers the person . 
Such specifications may seem unimportant to a person not having dealt with such serious issues , but even this menial change of words could make a complete difference in the mind of someone who has just been raped . 
What may be most vicious in this clause , however , is the ambiguity of the term " corroborating evidence . " 
The definition of corroborate is " to strengthen or support with other evidence ; to make more certain . " 
At an institution of such stature , there 's nothing needed beyond the substantial and potent claim that a person has been sexually assaulted . 
Yet this is so , and there are no definitions or specifications as to what exactly " corroborating evidence " is . 
There also are no provisions as to whose responsibility it will be to decide what type of evidence suffices this mandate . 
Another , deeper issue is the lack of concern for a true survivor of an attempt or actual sexual assault . 
Due to the lack of explanation and clear definition in the policy , a lot of ambiguities are raised by the policy . 
Harvard was unavailable to comment on this serious issue or clarify any of these questions . 
Hopefully , the new policy will not mean that a student who has just recently been assaulted will be forced before a university panel to present their corroborating evidence . 
If a female has just been raped by a male after a party , she may be required to give an embarrassing and scarring testimony before a board of middle-aged men in suits in order to prove that she has been violated . 
Because most evidence in cases involving any type of sexual assault are time-sensitive , does this mean that a student must act immediately or never be able to see justice served by their own university community ? 
So many of these questions only scratch the surface as to the greater implications that <ORGANIZATION>Harvard</ORGANIZATION> has not clarified in this horrific policy . 
Understandably , <ORGANIZATION>Harvard</ORGANIZATION> is trying its best to make all students feel safe and remain fair and unbiased when it comes to sexual assault , which , in a legal context , contains more gray area than black and white . 
Still , they are not doing a good enough job . 
If <ORGANIZATION>Harvard</ORGANIZATION> wants to protect its students , they should never hinder an investigation of sexual assault from taking place . 
What should be examined carefully is any official accusation or disciplinary action taken against a student before a full and complete investigation has taken place . 
Fairness to all students is definitely a priority , but the schematics of this policy are detrimental to every student at that university . 
The federal government reports that one in four college women will have been the targets of rape or attempted rape since the age of 14 . 
Eighty-five percent of college rapes are committed by a person the survivor knows , but only <PERCENT>5 percent</PERCENT> of attempted or completed rapes will actually be reported . 
Harvard , in efforts to decrease false accusations of sexual assault , has inadvertently hindered the rights and level of comfort for actual survivors to come forward with their stories . 
Their efforts have been extremely misconstrued , and very unfortunately , the people who are going to suffer from this policy are those who least deserve any added pressure from their college institution -- the survivors of sexual assault . 
( C ) <DATE>2002</DATE> Cavalier Daily via U-WIRE 
