<PERSON>Marshall Bronfin</PERSON> | The Cavalier Daily <PERSON>Kelly</PERSON> 's column runs biweekly <DATE>Tuesdays</DATE> . 
She can be reached at k.seegers@cavalierdaily.com I do not need to rehash the events of this semester for anyone . 
It has been difficult for all of us . 
But as it comes to an end , I am left with newfound admiration for the type of people in our student body . 
Through everything our community has weathered , what has stood out to me most is how so many individual responses to grief have together created a comprehensive and unifying whole . 
Our student body is filled with unique individuals - each with something different to offer and contribute . 
Particularly in the past two weeks , responses to the Rolling Stone article have been abundant . 
As I explained to my family during Thanksgiving break , when you provoke a community filled with such driven , leadership-oriented people , there is bound to be an outpouring of action-based calls . 
There are the people who organize protests and rallies , whose passions have moved them to make their voices heard , displaying that we do not stand for sexual assault . 
There are the people who avidly learn everything about the new policy and are working toward systematic changes . 
There are the people who pour their efforts into making sure our student body remains sane , with kind gestures such as those who gave out flowers or the Lawn residents who opened their doors to the community before the last home football game . 
There are people who are dedicated to their close friends and always check in to make sure they are OK . 
There are people who are adamant about changing the culture that surrounds us . 
There are people who have been working toward preventing sexual assault long before this happened , who now have the spotlight thrust upon them - and continue to do wonderful work . 
Academic departments have dedicated their expertise to understanding a niche part of this overwhelming issue . 
The English department hosted a discussion of how we can find the language to express our feelings , and how we can use literature as an outlet or framework for understanding the problems at hand . 
Likewise , the <ORGANIZATION>Media Studies</ORGANIZATION> department held a dialogue aimed at understanding the media issues behind the article . 
And , of course , there are the people who attend all of these events in an effort to help the movements that were started by others . 
They are the people who sit back , listen and think hard about what to do before acting . 
These are the people that make the initiatives of others worthwhile . 
I am sure that I did n't come close to mentioning all of the diverse ways in which students have responded to the article , but I am so inspired by what each individual has to offer and how strong our community is as a result . 
Taken by themselves , none of these events or gestures would solve the problems we are faced with . 
But together , our community is able to work toward a solution that incorporates everybody 's individual talents . 
We need each other not only to survive , but also to thrive . 
While this semester has been a trying one - one that has made me question many things - I am leaving it behind with a real appreciation for the fortitude of our student body . 
We are not passive . 
We are all connected by a desire to make a difference , to do what is right and to support our fellow <PERSON>Hoos</PERSON> . 
In many ways , these hardships have forced us to show our true colors - and these span across a spectrum that is much wider than orange and blue . 
Kelly 's column runs biweekly <DATE>Tuesdays</DATE> . 
She can be reached at k.seegers@cavalierdaily.com 
