 Virginia House Speaker S. Vance Wilkins Jr. is unfit to serve as speaker.
 He should step down. When The Washington Post uncovered allegations that Wilkins had settled a $ 100,000 sexual harassment suit with Jennifer L. Thompson, 26, who was a clerical worker at Wilkins Construction Co., formerly owned by Wilkins' father, Richmond reacted. House Republicans and Democrats want answers. Wilkins won't budge. In a statement released to The Washington Post Thursday, Wilkins denies having done anything wrong and cites as reasons for reaching settlement protracted legal costs and the embarrassment and unease his family would experience if it entered the public domain. He writes "those are very personal reasons why they avoid these suits." The use of third person refers to a hypothetical person settling a legal matter out of court even though he's innocent. Wilkins's implication that this is a personal matter reminds everyone of the apparent resemblance between inquiries into Clinton's sex life. Unfortunately for Wilkins' plight, the connection between his case and the witch hunt against Clinton is flimsy. Probing into Clinton's affair with Monica Lewinsky was an expedition into a personal and consensual relationship. If the allegations against Wilkins turn out to be true, a public official will have acted illegally by sexually harassing a co-worker. Which is why a public inquiry is called for. It's also why Wilkins' point that this issue is a personal matter over which questions must be answered is a sloppy conclusion indeed. Mr. Wilkins: You are not Clinton. There's no agenda to get you. House Republicans are calling for the inquiry, let's not forget that. If Wilkins attempted to force himself on someone, that is not a private act. Illegal acts are not private just because they occur in private. The acts Wilkins is accused of are not self-regarding. They have a victim. Even if an inquiry would expose Wilkins' family to embarrassment and possible loss of political sway, that is no argument against a probe. Anyone accused of a crime -- innocent or guilty - will endure the uncomfortable. But it seems more important to punish potential aggressors against women than to be concerned with how delicate their feelings about the process of doing so are. Wilkins is the Speaker of the House. Public officials put themselves in the public eye. What they do in office -- good or bad -- falls under the media's scrutiny. Similarly, what leaders do to demonstrate a lack of character bears just as much attention. Wilkins may very well be innocent. But that's not the point. He's a public official facing serious accusations. Private citizens and public officials alike must answer to authorities when accused of sexual harassment. Failure to do so states a disregard for Virginia residents who have every right to expect responsible leadership. Wilkins states in the same excerpt from The Post that "I was not about to let any personal situation endanger the elective prospects of my caucus." Too late for that. This is not just a personal situation. If it's true, it's a breach of public trust. If Wilkins sincerely wished not to endanger the elective prospects of his caucus, he should step down. Making way for a fresh, respected, untarnished leader might restore the very prospects his continued presence and silence destroys. (C) 2002 Cavalier Daily via U-WIRE