 Every college and university is unique in dealing with lesbian, gay,
 bisexual and transgender issues. Unlike the University, schools similar in size and reputation, such as the University of Michigan-Ann Arbor and the University of Maryland, provide formal resources to lgbt students. In response to this fact, an ad-hoc group of representatives from the University's lgbt communities appealed to the administration Sept. 16, asking for adequate resources, heightened visibility and acceptance of the lgbt communities. "What it comes down to, is that there's nothing here," committee member Jim Steichen said. "There is nothing specifically geared toward us. There is no administrative official whose job title explicitly or specifically deals with or includes us." "Researching other universities and what they have is the best way to go," said Heather Leitzke, chairwoman of the University's Student Council's LGBT Affairs Committee. Leitzke said the ad-hoc group, which formed during the summer, sent letters to other institutions with established lgbt resources. Committee members sought support for group's cause using evidence from other universities. Although newly appointed Assoc. Dean of Students Glenna Chang has publicly supported the lgbt communities, she does so in an informal capacity. Steichen stressed the importance of administrative support in changing the University's attitude toward lgbt students. "Institutionalized messages in the form of officials who speak out on these issues sends the message that compassionate, accepting behavior is something that's expected at U.Va.," he said. A proposal presented to the Office of the Dean of Students last month called for, among other resources, the establishment of an official administrative position to represent lgbt students. But concerns about the feasibility of obtaining a dean caused committee members to modify the proposal by not asking for a formal deanship. "A more realistic step is just to create a paid position at the University along the lines of Claire Kaplan at the Women's Center," Leitzke said. Kaplan organizes programs for sexual assault victims and maintains a help network. Committee members point to resources available at peer schools to strengthen their case. At Maryland, resources include a student resource center, a full-time coordinator for Lgbt issues and a newly formed presidential commission on lgbt awareness. In 1971, Michigan officials established a deanship and the nation's first Office of LGBT Affairs. At Maryland, while no formal deanship exists, a group of faculty and administrators aid student activists in creating a comfortable environment for "out" students, said Allen DeLong, who advises the school's Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual Association. "I cannot stress the importance of having 'out' faculty and staff and having allies for students," DeLong said. "Students ... need someone to prove to them it's okay to be 'out.'" Despite these peer institutions' formalized programs, University administrators said they think the University is handling lgbt concerns appropriately now. "All deans can handle matters related to" lgbt students, Dean of Students Robert T. Canevari said. "I think that's a strength instead of a weakness." (C) 1999 Cavalier Daily via U-WIRE