 I DECIDED to come to this university because it had an excellent academic
 reputation, the students were far more friendly and helpful here than at any other university I visited and I felt it was far enough away from home without being too far. When I joyfully informed friends and relatives about my decision to attend the University of Virginia, the first thing that popped out of their mouths almost across the board was, "Hey! Party school!" I have to admit this made me very nervous. Luckily, I had the good fortune to live with a suite of women who were happier to stay up until 3:00 on a Saturday morning watching the Muppet movies with a big bowl of popcorn, rather than dancing the night into oblivion out on Rugby Road with a big Solo cup of Natural Light. I never felt excluded or pressured into doing anything I didn't want to do, I always felt like there was an alternative to the party scene. Unfortunately, though I always have considered myself lucky, the recent discussion about the problems with alcohol on Grounds -- in this newspaper, by President John T. Casteen III, in forums around Grounds -- has forced me to think my experience was an exception to a very frightening rule. The more complaints I see about there being "nothing to do" here in Charlottesville besides go to parties and drink, the more I wonder if this is the same Charlottesville that I live in. And the more reports I read about students losing their lives to alcohol, the angrier I become. It shouldn't have to be this way. I won't say I never have taken part in the revelry. Drinking when everyone else is drinking can seem like fun -- everyone has a great sense of humor, is brilliant, handsome and can dance like John Travolta. Being a sober person on these premises, on the other hand, is terrible. First of all, there are drunk people everywhere. They're elbowing you, spilling beer on your jeans and grabbing sensitive areas of your body. They all seem to think they are extremely funny and can dance like John Revol -- er, Travolta. Not to be a stick in the mud, but I really can't understand why "partying" like this is a whole lot of fun. Perhaps I just haven't developed a collegiate aesthetic appreciation for the perfumes of stale beer and vomit. Perhaps being under 21, I fear the law too much. Perhaps I don't like to worry about who my friends are going home with. You see, being a bit of a pessimist, I can't help but think of student alcohol use as a huge demon with evil intent. We already have heard about several alcohol-related deaths of college students this semester, the most recent occurring just last weekend, and frightfully close to home, at Virginia Tech. We had an incident here just a few weeks ago with an intoxicated student from another university assaulting a woman in her own bed. How many alcohol-related sexual assaults go unreported we may never know. These serious incidents are more than enough to make me think twice about excessive drinking, I don't know about anyone else. Of course, I am also a privileged member of this University social scene: I have a car, and my schedule permits me to have a part-time job so that I can finance off-Grounds activities. I still live with my first-year roommates, most of whom feel Rugby Road is more like a Highway to Hell than an Avenue of Delight. In my opinion, I have only a few years here at the University and I should take in as much of this great little town as I possibly can; whereas I pretty much can drink anywhere in the world (except the United States, for another six months or so). I think it is up to the University to try a little harder to find healthy alternatives to Rugby Road that work for the student body. University Union usually does a good job -- Tom Deluca is an extremely successful event, as are the Newcomb Hall movies. Some other Union activities -- like comedians and coffeehouses -- really need to have more publicity and performance spaces with larger accommodations for more students. Evening sports events always are immensely popular. Some student organizations host activities that are widely attended as well. Considering the popularity of dance short courses here at the University, it might be worthwhile for groups to look into hosting more events where prep step, ballroom, shag, etc., can be danced. More free, largely publicized events, like Tom Deluca are worth investigating. Maybe something like the Charlottesville community's Fridays After Five -- a series of summer concerts which draw huge crowds -- could be created here. Easier access to the Downtown Mall (publicize the Hoo Bus! It's always empty and the Downtown Mall is so cool!), or shuttles to places like movie theaters, Kegler's, and Fashion Square Mall would be helpful. There should be some action by the students, of course, as well. Read the C-Ville Weekly. Organize a carpool to Toys R Us, get a video club membership (Hollywood Video is cheap and you can get there on the blue bus line) or check out Clemons' selection, go ice skating, try Teppan Yaki at the Chiang House, go swimming at the Aquatic & Fitness Center. Experience life. Experience Charlottesville. Party sometimes, but be responsible about it. Know your limits. Of course, drinking is going to occur in tandem with many of these suggested activities, especially at first. Maybe if the focus slowly could be removed from the tailgate before and the party afterward, and put onto the actual event itself, students would feel they had more choices. The University is far more than a "party school". (C) 1999 Cavalier Daily via U-WIRE