
 The Rolling Stone article detailing the gang rape of a first-year student by several Phi Kappa Psi brothers has spawned student, faculty and alumni responses to Greek life's association with sexual assault. On November 21, I attended the SlutWalk organized by my peers in which we marched from the Amphitheatre to the Corner in protest of victim-blaming. At one point, a group of demonstrators marched into Sigma Alpha Epsilon's yard to air objections to the Greek system before being asked to leave. That same day, Professor John Arras published an open letter to President Sullivan lambasting the "twisted, misogynist, privileged, moronic culture maintained by our Greek system" and its "alcohol-sodden, elitist, and anti-intellectual" qualities. President Sullivan released an email the next day announcing her suspension of "all fraternal organizations and associated social activities" until next semester. And currently, a change.org petition created by two University alumni calling for the abolition of the Greek system has nearly 1,500 signatures. I take issue with these calls to punish the entire Greek system because the Greek system is not a monolith and should be approached with greater nuance. There are four Greek councils at the University: the Inter-Fraternity Council , the Inter-Sorority Council , the National Pan-Hellenic Council , and the Multicultural Greek Council . The University does not have a Greek life problem. The University has an IFC problem. Last year, Sigma Nu and Pi Kappa Alpha fraternities lost their Fraternal Organization Agreements after hazing new members. The year before, the administration ordered the IFC to cut its pledge process short due to concerns with hazing and other dangerous practices. In 2011, a Zeta Psi pledge was rushed to the emergency room after being forced to drink unhealthy amounts of soy sauce. Sigma Phi Epsilon's chapter on Grounds lost its charter in 2009 after hazing allegations surfaced. In 2006, St. Anthony's Hall came under fire after a member inadvertently circulated an email suggesting plans for drug usage during pledge initiation. Each of these Greek organizations belongs or belonged to the Inter-Fraternity Council. Anecdotally, I have heard too many stories of sexual assaults at fraternity parties on Rugby Road. And between each of these incidents are likely many more occurrences of fraternity hazing and sexual assault that go unreported each year. Presenting these incidents as indictments of the entire Greek system is simply dishonest. In conflating the IFC with the Greek system, we risk marginalizing members of the NPHC and MGC. Altogether, they represent 15 fraternities and sororities for black and other multicultural interests, respectively. Each Greek organization within the NPHC and MGC carries traditions and conventions unique from those shared by IFC and ISC organizations. Additionally, NPHC and MGC organizations have had little to do with the sexual assault and hazing issues that have plagued IFC fraternities in recent years. The University already receives hefty condemnation for its lack of attention towards black and other minority communities, a problem that my fellow columnist Dani Bernstein recently addressed. Attacking the Greek system as a whole instead of the specific IFC fraternities implicated by incidents of sexual assault paints an incomplete picture of Greek life. A key component of sexual assault prevention efforts is the notion that each individual deserves a voice. To lay the blame on the entire Greek system denies the members of NPHC and MGC organizations their distinct identity on Grounds. To qualify, not all IFC fraternity men are to blame for these disasters in our community. In an article regarding the problematic structure of fraternities, my fellow columnist Gray Whisnant writes: "The overwhelming majority of fraternity men are not rapists nor would they ever consider committing or condoning sexual violence." Like Whisnant, I do not doubt that most men belonging to IFC fraternities are well-meaning individuals, many of whom are actively involved in sexual assault peer education groups such as One in Four. The vast majority of men in IFC fraternities have probably never committed sexual assault or sent a pledge to the hospital. But when these disasters do occur, we should be asking ourselves about how the intersection of wealth, class and elitism along with ingroup and outgroup social dynamics in IFC fraternities engender a culture in which such disasters are more likely to occur. Nazar Aljassar is an Opinion Columnist for The Cavalier Daily. He can be reached at n.aljassar@cavalierdaily.com