
 Courtesy United States Congress and The University of Virginia As thousands of students across the country return to their respective campuses, college and university administration officials nationwide continue to rethink sexual assault prevention and investigation policies. The impetus for this focus comes in large part from recent federal initiatives aimed at reducing sexual assault on college campuses. The White House has made addressing this violence a priority in the past year, creating a task force meant to advise the government on ways to handle the issue. The University has shown increased determination in recent months to adapt and improve policies. Movement at the federal level In announcing the creation of the task force, President Barack Obama said while there are already laws in place designed to prevent sexual assault and bring perpetrators to justice, the current system is not accomplishing what it should. In fact, a recent survey conducted by Senator Claire McCaskill, D-MO, of 440 institutions of higher learning demonstrated that more than 41 percent of surveyed schools have not conducted a single sexual assault investigation in the last five years. The White House task force seeks to change this by finding new procedures to boost prevention and investigative efforts. In a memo explaining its inception, Obama called the task force an "interagency effort to address campus rape and sexual assault, including coordinating Federal enforcement efforts by executive departments and agencies and helping institutions meet their obligations under Federal law." In April the task force released it's first report, titled "Not Alone," outlining how to best stem the tide of sexual violence. Among its recommendations were yearly campus climate surveys, greater involvement of males in prevention efforts, clearer and more diverse student resources and greater federal enforcement. These suggestions have received bipartisan support, with senators from both parties joining together to sponsor a bill that would bring many of them into law. This July, McCaskill introduced a bill - co-sponsored by seven other senators - calling to codify much of what the task force encouraged. The bill, called the Campus Accountability and Safety Act, would introduce new student resources, broader on-campus personnel training, student body climate surveys, a more centralized and uniform investigation process, and greater financial penalties for schools that fail to meet compliance. McCaskill was pleased with the bill, suggesting it was apolitical in nature and intended to usher in a significant fight against campus sexual assault. "This bill represents a rare thing in Washington-a truly collaborative, bipartisan effort-and that bodes well for our shared fight to turn the tide against sexual violence on our campuses," Senator McCaskill said in a press release. "To curb these crimes, students need to be protected and empowered, and institutions must provide the highest level of responsiveness in helping hold perpetrators fully accountable. That's what our legislation aims to accomplish." McCaskill and her co-sponsors are looking to amend the Clery Act: a 1965 law that ties federal funding for schools to the and handling of criminal activity. The Act was modified just last year, giving even more reason for colleges and universities to change their approach to sexual assault. Per the change, schools will now be required to report all statistics for domestic violence, dating violence, sexual assault and stalking for the previous three calendar years in their annual security reports, along with their methods for dealing with these issues, starting this October. This has left schools scrambling to reexamine sexual assault related policies and data, with the looming threat of sanctions should they not comply with the amended Clery Act. Although the Department of Education has acknowledged that this may not be fully possible by October, it expects all institutions to make a "good faith effort" to do so. Trickling down to Charlottesville All of this means change for the University. Associate Dean of Students Nicole Eramo said while she believes the University currently has solid policies regarding sexual assault, there is always room for improvement and changes will now have to be made with Federal legislation in mind. "I think that our current policy and procedures are strong, but we can always make improvements," Eramo said in an email. "I do expect that we will be revising our policy in the coming year to address additional guidance and legislation from the Federal government as well as address areas for improvement that we have noticed in working under this policy since 2011." In addition, a new position has been added to augment the University's sexual assault prevention capabilities. Dean Eramo said that last week Nicole Thomas started in the University's new Program Coordinator for Prevention position. Dean Eramo says to expect to see new prevention initiatives in the near future as she and Thomas continue to develop new measures. Virginia Governor Terry McAuliffe announced Thursday the creation of a state-based task force similar to the White House Task Force. This state-based force will seek to address sexual assault on campuses in the state of Virginia, including an officer specifically assigned to the University. Further changes, such as climate surveys and increased fines, could also be seen in the coming academic year, depending on whether federal legislation addressing sexual assault is passed and what timeline the government gives schools to make changes. The University is prepared to adjust if necessary and is developing improvements to the system. Emily Renda, former University student and Sexual Assault Leadership Council chair, said to expect to see student body surveys on the issue by spring semester. She said she finds these surveys particularly promising. "We can't make accurate changes or assessments without information," Renda said. "All we know is what we see, what comes through the door. We want to get people who don't want to report or come forward; how students feel about the system generally, how hostile the culture is for women, LGBTQ, etc." Renda was not as confident about the success of heftier fines - another proposed legal amendment - for schools that don't meet compliance. She said she was afraid they might be carried out the wrong way. "I'm not sure fines are the [best] way to go, so much as a forced budget reallocation," Renda said. "Taking money away from school ultimately takes away money from students; I worry it deprives students of resources." She said it would be more useful to force the school to do something like hire a trauma specialist, for example. Sara Surface, a third year College student and external chair of the Sexual Assault Prevention Coalition (formerly the Sexual Assault Leadership Council), said she feels everyone involved on staff is trying their hardest to help sexual assault survivors and to prevent further sexual violence. "As far as how the University handles sexual assault, there is no one right answer," Surface said. "The administration wants to solve this issue as badly as we do. It is important to everyone here and we're all working toward the same goals." Renewed University efforts This semester, students will witness the launch of "Not on Our Grounds," the University's campaign to end sexual assault. This campaign will first come to life with "Hoos Got Your Back," a sub-campaign that launches Friday to complete the first phase of Not on Our Grounds. It aims to raise awareness among first-years, who are statistically at greatest risk of sexual violence in college as compared to students in other years. Part of the goal with "Hoos Got Your Back" is to organize a campaign with help from as many students and groups as possible, with the hope for an inclusive and well represented team. The administration felt student input would allow the University to best plan action specifically for its student body and increase its chances of success. Surface and Renda were closely involved in the planning of this initiative. "Hoos Got Your Back is in some ways like a renewal of the community of trust," Surface said. "It puts a spin on 'this is our community' in a way that says it's our responsibility to look out for one another. It's a way that's more accessible to everyone." Hoos Got Your Back aims to involve the community beyond U.Va. Carol Wood, former head of University public affairs, who has served as an advisor in the development of Hoos Got Your Back, reached out to the Corner Merchants Association to try to involve businesses on the Corner. The response to this initiative has been extremely positive, Surface said, and a number of merchants will be working closely with the campaign, including The Virginian, Little John's, Mincer's and Take It Away. Tom Bowe, the owner of Take It Away, sent out a letter further encouraging businesses on the Corner to get involved. "Students find their way into the rhythms of every business on The Corner," Bowe said. "It's our privilege to play a role in their academic passage! I urge your whole participation in the Not On Our Grounds campaign. This call to action is an opportunity to more fully find mission in our livelihoods, and to make a difference in our community." Further changes besides Not on Our Grounds will continue to be introduced throughout the school year. Some will be unveiled by Pat Lampkin, Vice President and Chief Student Affairs Officer, at the next Board of Visitors meeting on September 12th, where she will specifically address the University's changing approach to prevent sexual violence.