 University of Virginia officials are saying they plan to file charges with
 the University Judiciary Committee in the wake of hazing allegations against the local Alpha Mu chapter of the Delta Sigma Phi Fraternity. The Grand Council of Delta Sigma Phi Fraternity and the University undertook independent investigations into alleged misconduct at the fraternity in early November. The University conducted its investigation through the Office of Fraternity and Sorority Life, which since has been concluded and turned over to the Vice President for Student Affairs Office. "University judiciary charges will be filed in this case," said Aaron Laushway, assistant dean of students and director of fraternity and sorority life. Vice President for Student Affairs Patricia Lampkin verified there is alleged hazing in the case which has been brought to her office, but could not confirm whether the allegations implicate an individual or an organization. "We are treating the allegations seriously and will respect the confidentiality of judicial rules throughout the process," Lampkin said. Alpha Mu chapter President Russell Prestipino declined to comment yesterday on "anything pertaining to UJC." Virginia's hazing statute requires the University to investigate and assess allegations of hazing, and subsequently report those findings to the state when they cause bodily harm. "If a public university finds a student or group of students to have committed hazing that results in bodily injury, then the University has to report the hazing to the state's Commonwealth attorney," said Madelyn Wessel, special advisor to the vice president for student affairs. The University's hazing policy as outlined in the Undergraduate Record covers a broader range than the state's criterion and includes actions which produce "mental or physical harassment, discomfort, or ridicule." "A group or individuals accused of hazing can be brought both up on criminal charges and to the UJC," Wessel said. University Judiciary Committee Chair Alexis Gregorian could neither confirm nor deny whether charges have been brought against the organization or individuals in this case. Potential sanctions against an organization found guilty of hazing could include revocation of its Fraternal Organization Agreement, mandatory changes to its bylaws or the institution of community service for its members. "The most severe would be revoking the FOA -- that's kind of similar to expelling a student," Gregorian said. Sanctions for an individual convicted of hazing would vary as in any trial on the basis of a crime's severity. Previously, hazing cases had carried a state-mandated expulsion criterion but no longer do. The University Inter-Fraternity Council did not undertake its own investigation into the hazing allegations but fully supported the efforts of those already undertaken, IFC President Ryan Ewalt said. As a result of the Delta Sigma Phi Grand Council investigation, the national organization suspended the charter of the Alpha Mu chapter at the University last week and decided to reorganize the chapter "immediately." Laushway said the Office of Fraternity and Sorority Life is cooperating with the Grand Council following the suspension and decision to reorganize. "It means the national organization will basically run the chapter," he said. Some current Delta Sigma Phi brothers can remain members of the fraternity following the reorganization, as opposed to a complete fraternity recolonization in which all current members are relegated to alumni status or expelled. Prestipino said the national Delta Sigma Phi organization will use three levels of membership to assess current brothers. Current members can either be deemed "a brother in good standing" or expelled from the fraternity altogether. A brother also can be suspended until after he graduates upon which time he would receive status as an alumni member of Delta Sigma Phi. "I don't know how long it's going to take," Prestipino said in reference to the reorganization. Laushway said the Office of Fraternity and Sorority Life still is recognizing the local Delta Sigma Phi chapter as a fraternity with the provision it cooperates with the national organization. The chapter still has its FOA and charter -- therefore it remains a member of the IFC. "Suspend does not mean terminate -- there's an important distinction there," Ewalt said. The local chapter will participate in Spring rush and recruitment under the supervision of its national organization. "The IFC will support their reorganization however we can," Ewalt said. (C) 2002 Cavalier Daily via U-WIRE