 The Sexual Assault Education Council discussed implementing its new
 policies--including publicizing sexual assault cases at the University--at its meeting last night. "The Sexual Assault Board is more focused now, and can specialize in matters of sexual assault," said Assoc. Dean of Students V. Shamim Sisson, who is also the SAB chairwoman. "One of the major differences of the new policies is that in previous years the process followed the [University Judiciary Council] format of trials." There are two separate boards at the University that deal with sexual assault --the SAB and the Judicial Review Board, which deals with appeals. In April, the SAB voted and President John T. Casteen III approved altering the method in which sexual assault cases would be tried beginning this academic year. Under the new policies, the SAB will only hear cases dealing with sexual assault. "Now the advisors who are assigned to students will be emotional and personal supports," Sisson said. Previously, the former University Committee on Sexual Assault and Judicial Review handled matters relating to sexual assault and appeal cases. Now the SAB will serve as a panel while hearing cases, and will ask questions to both parties and their witnesses, Sexual Assault Education Coordinator Claire Kaplan said. "Overall, the new policies have made the procedure of handling such cases less legalistic," Kaplan said. She said the UJC will not handle sexual assault cases and the SAB will take over all cases previously heard by UCSAJR. "The UJC is not hearing the cases, so the Sexual Assault Board will deal with their cases in a different manner," she added. The SAB is made up of faculty, students and University staff. At least one student, two faculty members and a chairman must serve on a panel. Kaplan said in the event of a guilty verdict, the victim will have the opportunity to file a "victim impact statement," which the SAB will consider while deciding the sanction for the convicted. A "victim impact report," written by the victim of the sexual assault, describes the impact the assault had on theirs lives. The SAB is not bound to impose a sanction, but may take the report into consideration while making their decision. In addition, she said others besides victims will have new avenues to report incidents of sexual assault. "Now University students are able to file third party sexual assault reports on the Web," she added. According to official 1998-99 SAB procedures, a case must be filed as a written complaint to Dean of Students Robert T. Canevari , after which the Dean of Student's Office and the UJC can start a formal investigation. The UJC then investigates to determine the extent the University has jurisdiction over the case. If the Dean of Student's Office and the UJC find the assault is within the jurisdiction of the University, advisors are assigned to both the accuser and the accused. Sanctions for sexual assault range from verbal admonition to expulsion. Women's Center Director Sharon Davie could not be reached for comment. Asst. Dean of Students John Foubert also discussed his new male peer education program on sexual assault at the meeting. "It treats men as potential helpers, not potential rapists," Foubert said. "Only men can prevent rape--women can reduce their risks of being raped." (C) 1999 Cavalier Daily via U-WIRE