 Iowa State will put names and faces to stories of sexual assault Wednesday
 night. Victims and survivors of rape will step forward to share their experiences with violence during the "Take Back the Night" rally and march tonight. Laura Armstrong, Women's Center Sexual Assault Services coordinator, said "Take Back the Night" is an important issue that is often times swept under the carpet because it is so hard to talk about. "In a community like Ames, it is easy to believe that sexual assault doesn't occur," said Armstrong, Committee Against Violence co-chair. "We tend to not think about it, but we really need to raise awareness on rape. Seventy to 80 percent are acquaintance or date rapes, while 20 to 30 percent are strangers. These issues need to be recognized." The rally will begin at the steps of Curtiss Hall at 7:15 tonight followed by a march through Campustown and the greek community. Luminaries will guide the marchers as they chant verses supporting the safety of women. The march will end back on central campus for a reception at the Margaret Sloss House Women's Center. The rally will feature four speakers: Julie Wooden from ACCESS (Assault Care Center Extending Shelter and Support), who will be presenting introductions; Armstrong, who will talk about date rape; Nancy Ziegenmeyer, the rally's featured speaker, who will discuss her experience with rape and her book "Taking Back My Life"; and Sara Junck, volunteer and worker at ACCESS, who will talk about what it is like to be a part of a community against violence. Armstrong said organizers have worked to have many groups involved in the rally. "We've done a lot of advertising, from the greek communities to the residence halls," Armstrong said. "Also a lot of 'Take Back the Night' rallies forbid men from participating, whereas at ISU, the Committee Against Violence encourages men to come because it is not just a women's issue. The rally is a joint effort with all genders." Armstrong said one of the goals of the rally is to put a face with the statistics. "We tend to read about rape, and it's always someone else," Armstrong said. "With this rally, we're bringing faces to the stories, which really can be quite powerful and emotional. This is a way we can stand together and refuse to accept violence towards women." Judy Dolphin, director of the Ames-ISU YWCA, said this is an event in which students take the initiative. "It shows solidarity and support for the concept of being safe on the streets," said Dolphin, adviser to the Committee on Violence. "Women should be able to take comfort in the fact that there is concern and we are doing something about it." Dolphin said "Take Back the Night" is a global event that occurs in the fall, but due to a concern of safety during Veishea, students decided to recognize sexual assault awareness in the spring. "When you hear the stories of people who have been touched by violence, it makes people want to take part in these events," Dolphin said. "The march is a visible demonstration to the community to stand up and take notice of what is going on around them." Other programs that will take place during Sexual Assault Awareness Month include a brown-bag discussion on same-sex violence April 17, a conference on women of color and sexual problems within the medical and law enforcement departments on April 19 and a self-defense workshop also on April 19, Armstrong said. "Take Back the Night" and other Sexual Assault Awareness month programs have been supported by these Ames and ISU organizations and businesses: Multicultural Task Force, Ames-ISU YWCA, Margaret Sloss Women's Center, Alpha Xi Delta, Oak-Elm Planning Board, Doran Clinic, ACCESS, Off-Campus and Adult Student Services, Hy-Vee, Women's Studies, African-American Studies, Welch Avenue Station, Wal-Mart, Feminist Majority Leadership Alliance, Committee Against Violence, Phi Beta Pi and the Committee on Lectures. (C) 2000 Cavalier Daily via U-WIRE