 Headlines scream the lastest news from Virginia Military Institute's
 struggle to co-educate. The silver screen lights up as a bruised and battered Demi Moore sports a shaved head and fatigues. While the issue of women in the military continues to spark debate across the nation, gender plays a lesser role in the University's ROTC program. The sun was still low in the horizon when army cadets began their descent off the 50-foot "bunny slope" at Raven's Roost, located on the Blue Ridge Parkway. An hour later, the cadets were tackling a 60-foot vertical rock while upperclassmen barked out commands, addressing the uniformed figures by their last names. "We treat everybody fairly based on their year, their rank and just the quality of the cadet, " said Lt. Thomas James, a first-year instructor and Navy group advisor. The University offers Army, Navy, Air Force, Navy and Marine ROTC programs. Although the individual ROTC programs each are structured differently, the program basically consists of military training during undergraduate years in which the ROTC foots the bill for portions of tuition and other expenses in exchange for a student's commitment to military service after graduation. While men still dominate the University's ROTC programs, each boasts female participation rates higher than national averages. "Our women do very well," said Lieutenant Colonel John Dean, Army ROTC program commander and military science professor. Women said they join the ROTC program for a variety of reasons; many are interested in the scholarship and job opportunities, while others come from military families. "I always liked teamwork, discipline and excellence," said Airforce Wing Commander Amy Thibodeau, a fourth-year College student. "The military strives for all of these things. "I knew that I would be with motivated people working for a common mission, and a very worthwhile mission," Thibodeau said. New opportunities for women in the military have increased the number of women who choose to enter the field. "When I was a cadet here, the main difference was that you knew up front that women couldn't become fighter pilots and so most of the pilot candidates were male," said Captain Anne Marie Gilliam, Air Force ROTC air science assistant professor. "That's not the case anymore because those restrictions have been taken away." The Air Force ROTC detachment consists of 42 percent women -- 25.3 percent higher than the national average -- making it the highest female participation of University ROTC programs, with about 45 women enrolled. Women account for 36 percent of the Army program (a total of 23) and 18 percent of the Navy program (a total of 22 ). "It was probably one of the most worthwhile things that I think I've ever done," Lt. Tina Blain, Gold Bar Recruiter and 1996 College graduate, said of her years with the Army ROTC. As a Gold Bar recruiter, Blain visits different schools and events to recruit young people for the ROTC program. The program trains students to be second lieutenants in the Army -- a position symbolized by a gold bar worn on the uniform. Blain was the only woman in her class. "I did everything they did. I was never excluded out of anything," she said. But while the University ROTC programs provide an equal experience for students, women serving in the U.S. Armed Forces still are not on completely equal footing. In the Navy, women are prevented from duty on submarines. Federal government regulations also bar Army women from serving in the infantry and armored divisions. But few women involved in a University ROTC program said their experiences were different from those of their male counterparts. "I don't even think about it. Everyone's in uniform, evrybody's the same," said Mark Rogers, fourth-year College student and Batalionist S-3. "That's the point of the uniform." "Our women do the same training program as the men," said Lt. Colonel Dean. "There's only one factor that sets them apart from the men, in terms of the training program, and that's the physical fitness standards. Because of the women's physiology differences, the army recognizes a different army physical fitness standard. But in the Navy ROTC program, the detachment decided to give out awards for their semester Physical Readiness Test (PRT) without regard to gender. "Some of the people in the battalion were thinking that none of the girls wold get the awards," said Midshipman 2nd class Shannon VanderPas, a third-year College student. As it turned out, three of seven midshipmen awarded last semester were women who received perfect scores. Despite some bad publicity in recent years about sexual harassment in the militrary, many University ROTC women said they have not encountered any such problems. "We don't tolerate anything like that. We never have, we never will, and I think that's instilled in the cadet system," Thibodeau said. "It's not something we even have to address. When the cadets come in they see women in the high positions and men in the high positions of different races of diferent genders. I don't think it's even an issue in our detachment." Because of the high percentage of women in the University ROTC programs, many women said they don't encounter the problems associated with being the only woman in a group of men. But during summer training activities, when University ROTC students are taken away from Grounds, the story sometimes takes a different twist. When Thibodeau attended field training between her second and third years, she encountered Virginia Military Institute and Citadel men who, at the time, never had worked with female colleagues. "For some of them it was hard to deal with us," she said. "But they learn [to] drop their attitudes, which is good." VanderPas was placed on a Navy ship with 800 men and 23 women during the summer training cruise she took between her second and third years. "At first it was weird," she said. But she said she didn't encounter any negative feelings while she was on the ship. "Younger officers don't have that mindset at all," she addded. When Blain attended the five-week advanced camp required by the Army between her third and fourth years, it was the first year the camp integrated the barracks. Of the 44 cadets in the platoon, eight were women. Only a curtain separated the male and female quarters. To prevent any embarrassing moments dealing with the one bathroom for the barracks, a sign was placed on the door indicating occupancy by a woman or man. But this delicate situation didn't pose any problems, in Blain's opinion. "Everyone was very respectful of each other. It was easier to get things done because we were all in the barracks," she said. For some of the women in ROTC, there is an extra push for excellence, coming from the need to uphold the position of women in the military. Many feel they must prove themselves, knowing they are blazing tough trails for future women in the military. "Personally, for me it's something I'm constantly thinking about," said Midshipman 1st Class Abigail Callanta, a fourth-year Nursing student. But many such women say this pressure is lessened by the University's more accepting atmosphere. Proving oneself simply becomes a matter of action, not gender. "In order to get respect from people you have to comport yourself in a respectable manner," VanderPas said. "That's the same for guys and girls." (C) 1999 Cavalier Daily via U-WIRE