 Participants in the 11th annual 'Take Back the Night' rally gathered to
 express their support for sexual assault victims by marching from the Downtown Mall to the Rotunda and back Thursday night. Despite the dreary weather, about 300 men and women assembled in the Charlottesville Amphitheater to hear speakers and performers before marching to the Rotunda for a candlelight vigil. "Tonight the women of Charlottesville are taking a step forward to take back the night," Charlottesville Sheriff Cornelia Johnson said. The crowd listened to facts, stories and songs--alternating between breaking out into passionate cheers and silently giving their solemn attention. "It was very powerful," said Bobby Cockrill, a student from the University of Richmond. Areshini Pather, vice president of the University's chapter of the National Organization for Women, said the event was a success despite the weather. "The showing of the University community is wonderful--it's definitely a larger crowd than we've had before and it shows solidarity," Pather said. Participants said the attendance of men at the event was also important. "I'm so thrilled to see all the young men here," Charlottesville Vice Mayor Meredith Richards said. "I'd say in light of the recent events in the Charlottesville community it's important that we all come together to take a stand against this violence," Inter-Fraternity Council President Wes Kaupinen said. Second-year College student Rachelle Padgett said the event showcased the cause effectively. "They can see the statistics, but that's easier to ignore than seeing 300 women standing at the Rotunda," Padgett said. Graduate student Nina Harkrader said the event should reassure sexual assault victims. "For people who have experienced violence of this kind ... we support them," Harkrader said. Third-year College student Casey Henry said she hopes the event entices more people to get involved in issues and programs concerning sexual assault. "I hope it makes people realize it's not just a women's problem, that it affects everyone, and we need everybody to work to stop it," Henry said. (C) 1999 Cavalier Daily via U-WIRE