 Charlottesville, Va.'s serial rapist struck again Saturday April 26th at
 3:15 a.m. "The victim was a former student of the University who was visiting for the Foxfield races," said Charlottesville Police Lt. J. W. Gibson. "She was walking up out-door stairs to enter the home when the rapist followed her inside." Charlottesville police are unable to publish their investigative actions for security reasons. The serial rapist has been reported by Charlottesville police to climb up three flights to commit a sexual assault, Gibson said. Police are asking for the assistance of Charlottesville residents and students to capture the repeat offender. "We have created a flier and we have solicited help from many sources to send the fliers out," Gibson said. "We get lots of calls daily from people, but none have panned out yet." "We consider this a serious situation," University Police Captain Michael Coleman said. "There have been a number of attacks around the University. The perpetrator has been in the area for a couple years, at least." The rapist usually targets victims in their own homes. "With the exception of one person, everyone has been accosted inside their residence," Gibson said. Police stress the importance of safety precautions. "The most important message we need to get out is to lock the doors," Gibson said. "He has not come through any locked doors." "Follow general safety precautions," Coleman said. "Pay attention to your surrounding area. Walk in well lit areas and take escort service at night. Keep doors and windows locked and blinds down." Charlottesville police said they believe the only way to stop the serial rapist is to arrest him. "By the nature of his actions, he's not going to stop until he is stopped," Gibson said. Police say to be suspicious of peepers and prowlers. "All rapists are prowlers," Gibson said. "The rapist has to find his victim." Police stress the need for community participation in capturing the assailant. "We are really trying to get people to report it at the time it occurs," Gibson said. "If you think there is someone outside the door or whatever the situation may be." Police want to make sure everyone participates in the search for the attacker. "Men sometimes think we are only speaking to women when we say to report prowlers, but in order to find victims, he has to be prowling around houses with males," Gibson said. Police have composed a general profile of the rapist's character. "This person is going to be the person who sort of disappears into the woodwork," Gibson said. "He is quiet, uncomfortable, awkward around women, doesn't have a very high station in life, and his world is reasonably small." "Someone may have seen this person or recognize him," Coleman said. "His picture is on the University Police Web site and on fliers around grounds." "Anyone who sees activity needs to call us right away," Gibson said (C) 2002 Cavalier Daily via U-WIRE