 CHILD molestation possibly is the most difficult issue to debate in modern
 society. Some individuals passionately support measures to afford our children the highest protection from former child molesters. Others fervently contend we must not ignore the rights of anyone in society, including sex offenders. Megan's Law recently has brought the debate to the fore. The law -- named for 7-year-old Megan Kanka, who was raped and murdered by a twice-convicted sex offender -- requires officials notify communities when former child molesters enter town. In addition, Megan's Law allows prosecutors to rank sex offenders according to their perceived risk to a community. Similar laws now exist in 36 states, including Virginia. On Tuesday, the Supreme Court rejected a challenge to Megan's Law from a group of sex offenders in New Jersey. While my heart and my sympathy support Megan's Law, my mind tells me the law is unconstitutional and unjust. This is yet another case in which our passions overcome our reason and trample our rights. First, the recent Supreme Court decision against the New Jersey sex offenders marked a miscarriage of justice. The sex offenders committed their sexual crimes before community notification laws were on the books in New Jersey; however, when they were released from jail, they were made subject to these laws. But, the Constitution prohibits ex post facto laws. In other words, there is a prohibition against laws increasing a defendant's punishment beyond those that exist when the crime was committed. Thus, a murderer cannot be put on death row if the capital punishment did not exist until after he committed his murder. This prohibition of ex post facto laws allows some sense of justice. A person committing a crime knows what punishment to expect. On the other hand, the New Jersey sex offenders left jail for an unexpected punishment -- community notification. Now, their privacy is violated under laws that did not exist at the times of their offenses. In addition, there are more general problems with Megan's Law. Critics of the law argue it involves unconstitutional "double jeopardy." Sex offenders receive their just punishment when they are incarcerated for a number of years. Megan's Law, however, adds a second, unjust punishment -- namely, publicizing their names and addresses, leading to potential harassment and abuse. Supporters of Megan's Law argue that community notification is necessary to protect children. They claim parents must be able to identify former child molesters in order to properly shield their children from these individuals. I absolutely sympathize with these individuals and know that, when I become a parent, I would want the same information to protect my children. The unfortunate irony of the situation is that the very analysis given to support Megan's Law renders it unconstitutional. The U.S. Court of Appeals argued that "Megan's Law did not involve "double jeopardy" because "the state had imposed no restrictions on a [person's] ability to live and work in a community ..." This analysis is illogical. The purpose of Megan's Law is to remove the privacy of the sex offender so the people in a community can treat the individual differently. Certainly, Megan's Law will make this individual's assimilation into a community complicated -- constituting a second punishment. If we do accept Megan's Law, why should it only apply to sex offenders? If the purpose is to protect children, shouldn't we also notify communities with former drug dealers who have sold to children? If our goal is to identify potential threats to society, shouldn't we force convicted drunk drivers to place special stickers on their cars saying, "I'm a convicted drunk driver?" We have to assume an individual is rehabilitated after his punishment and allow him to get on with his life. If we believe child molestation is such a terrible crime -- which I believe it is -- we should have life sentences without parole instead of community notification. Once an individual returns to society we at least must allow him to lead a private life. (Colin Miller's column appears Fridays in The Cavalier Daily.) (C) 1999 Cavalier Daily via U-WIRE