 A 16-year-old girl announced last weekend that she was raped at a Sept. 6
 fraternity party at the College of William & Mary. The girl, an unnamed resident of the middle peninsula area near Williamsburg, was at a party at the Lambda Chi Alpha fraternity when the incident allegedly occurred. Though the girl has not filed charges and the College is not involved in the case, a state investigation is ongoing. "The matter is in the hands of the Commonwealth's attorney," Vice President for Student Affairs Sam Sadler said. "We are not pursuing any investigation on our own, so not to prejudice his plans." A campus police statement said the girl was dancing with an unnamed male student when his female friend invited her upstairs for a drink. The girl accepted a shot of rum, and proceeded to follow the male student into his room, she told police. The police statement then said the student immediately closed the door, pushed the girl down and began to aggressively tear off her clothes. She told police that although she was yelling "no" repeatedly and crying, he held her down, put on a condom and had sex with her. The report then said that the male student said the condom broke, at which point the girl yelled "stop" and the student allegedly sat up, giving her an opportunity to get dressed and run away. According to the report, a student who worked in the fraternity complex said he saw the girl immediately afterward. The student said the girl looked to be in a state of "mental and physical" distress. The girl sought treatment at Riverside Walter Reed Hospital in Gloucester, and the campus police were notified of the incident early Sunday, Sept. 7. Following the incident, the College of William & Mary has requested an internal review of social functions and alcohol on the campus, led by Sadler. The task force will access policies and procedures regarding alcohol that govern student activities. William & Mary President Timothy Sullivan told the school's Board of Visitors that he expects the report to be finished by Oct. 1. William & Mary officials stressed that they are taking the matter seriously. "We're not just twiddling our thumbs waiting for the results of [the Commonwealth Attorney's] investigation," Sadler said. "All social privileges of Lambda Chi Alpha have been suspended until further notice." National Lambda Chi Alpha administrators also are involved in the investigation. "We have someone working directly with the campus police in Williamsburg, and we are cooperating thoroughly with the college and legal authorities," said Kip Zurcher, chief operating officer of Lambda Chi Alpha. In a press release from the National Chapter of Lambda Chi Alpha, the fraternity expressed regret. "Lambda Chi Alpha Fraternity is aware of and deeply saddened by the allegations regarding one of its members at William & Mary," the release stated. "At this time no further details are known, but the fraternity will complete its own investigation as well." (C) 2002 Cavalier Daily via U-WIRE