
 Charlottesville, Va., resident John Henry Agee, 37, is being held without bond in connection with the Sept. 3 sexual assault of a University of Virginia graduate student. The Virginia Forensic Lab linked Agee to the Sept. 3 assault, which occurred on Sunset Avenue, through genetic evidence and concluded that he is not connected to the serial rapist case. In a hearing held Monday morning, it was determined that Agee would be held without bond, Charlottesville Police Lt. Joseph Gibson said. Agee is not eligible for bond until he goes to trial. The date for the trial has not been set. According to a press release from the Charlottesville Police Department, on Friday, Sept. 9, the Charlottesville police received a report from the Virginia Forensic Lab that linked the evidence recovered from the Sept. 3 sexual assault to Agee. Agee was arrested outside of his apartment on Cherry Avenue around 5:30 p.m. Friday without incident and was charged with the rape. Agee's DNA information was on file with the Virginia Forensic Lab prior to the Sunset Avenue assault, and his DNA information was matched with the evidence gathered during the investigation of the Sept. 3 assault, Charlottesville Police Chief Timothy Longo said. "Due to the nature of his criminal history, [Agee] was required to give information to the Virginia Forensic Lab," Longo said. According to Virginia code, every person who is convicted of a felony or a felony offense must have a sample of blood, saliva or tissue taken for DNA analysis in order to determine individual characteristics that can be used for identification. The Virginia Forensic Lab also concluded that Agee is not linked to the serial rapist case, as his DNA information never came up as a match to the evidence recovered from the serial rapist assaults, Longo said. "He is already in the [DNA] database -- he would have come up in 2002 had he been connected," Longo said. "The Sunset case is not connected to the serial rapist case." Christopher Lynn Matthew, who was accused early last week in this case, was exonerated based upon genetic evidence, and he was cleared of all charges Wednesday. (C) 2005 Cavalier Daily via U-WIRE