 Officials have confirmed that the victim of the recent rape under Beta
 Bridge is a University female student and that the attack may be connected to a series of sexual assaults in 1997. The rape occurred on the railroad tracks under Beta Bridge at about 9 p.m. Thursday. Although it has been rumored that the student was assaulted while walking over the bridge, officials said the attacker approached the student while crossing the tracks. "She was confronted on the railroad tracks and overpowered and assaulted under Beta Bridge," Asst. Dean of Students Aaron Laushway said. The student contacted the police and now is receiving counseling from the University. "She had sense enough to get to the police," Laushway said. "She has sought help and is receiving assistance from the resources the University provides." University Police handed the case over to the Charlottesville Police shortly after the incident because the offense occurred in the City of Charlottesville. University and City police officials declined to comment on the details of the investigation. Officials have said they believe this assault may be related to a series of sexual assaults that occurred near the Rugby Road area in 1997. "There were a series of assaults near or not far away from the same area," Laushway said. In all of these cases, the assailant has been a stranger who has caught the victim off-guard. "The man works in a stealth manner," Sexual Assault Education Coordinator Claire Kaplan said. "He took all the victims by surprise." According to University Police, seven sexual assaults took place from March 1997 to July 1997. The attacks and attempted assaults occurred in several areas near Grounds, including Culbreth Road, Virginia Avenue and Lambeth Lane. A police description of the suspect in these crimes identifies the attacker as a black male between 19 and 25 years old, 5 feet 10 inches to 6 feet 3 inches tall and 150 to 230 pounds. Kaplan said stranger assault, though rarer than acquaintance rape, is particularly frightening. "Stranger assaults are proportionately rare, but they are frightening because people feel they can't control the situation," she said. She added that although these assaults are surprise attacks, students can take preventative steps. "To avoid assault by a stranger, avoid travelling alone whenever possible, stay away from the railroad tracks and pay attention to what's going on around you," Kaplan said. Laushway said he hopes student awareness will increase as a result of the assault. "We urge students to be careful and to walk in well-lit and populated areas," he said. Police said there was no information available about the suspect. (C) 1999 Cavalier Daily via U-WIRE