
 In Thomas Jefferson's founding of the University, he stressed the importance of students being involved in public affairs and public service. He knew that what happened beyond the classroom would have a significant impact on the world we live in today. Jefferson's ideas are as important today as they were when he founded the University. I know students across Grounds are involved in issues of importance around the globe. But, there are many opportunities for students to have an impact right here at home in the Commonwealth. With the November 4 election just around the corner, issues important to the University community are on the ballot - especially those that involve reducing the burden of student debt, addressing campus sexual assault and working to expand job opportunities for recent graduates. In the Senate I have worked in a bipartisan way to address these issues and many more. My story may be much like yours: I was the first in my family to graduate from college. I was able to pay for my degree by working part time and taking on student debt. And after finishing my education, I tried to start a business but failed - not once, but twice. What I learned through those experiences is something that no one tells you: getting it right the first time is the exception, not the rule. Fortunately, I was able to get back on my feet, and my third attempt ultimately became the company Nextel. But I would not have had three chances to try - and fail - if I faced the same amount of student debt that today's students face. This September I stopped by the O'Hill Forum to talk to University students about the impact of student debt. College graduates in Virginia carry nearly $30,000 in student loan debt. Too many young people are being forced to put off decisions about starting a family, launching a startup business or buying a home because of the burden of student debt. As a result of these campus conversations, I have rolled up my sleeves and worked with Republicans and Democrats on specific proposals that will go a long way towards helping young Virginians prepare for college, responsibly manage their student loan debts and find good jobs upon graduation. These ideas include my work with Florida Republican Senator Marco Rubio to make the costs and benefits of college much more transparent and to help students and their parents make more informed decisions when picking a college. For those facing student loan debts upon graduation, I have proposed capping the amount of loan repayments at 10 percent of your monthly income, and providing employers with the option to offer $5,000 pre-tax to help employees pay off their student debts directly. After graduation, students should have access to world-class jobs in all parts of the Commonwealth. I am working across the aisle to reduce unnecessary regulations so startups can thrive and to embrace new methods like crowdfunding so that our entrepreneurs have easier access to capital. With the right policies in place, I believe the next Google or Facebook could start right here in the Commonwealth. I also spoke to University students about the importance of college safety. I recently joined a group of Senate Democrats and Republicans to introduce the Campus Accountability and Safety Act aimed at making college safer for all young women and men. The statistics are horrendous - one out of every five college women is estimated to be the victim of a sexual assault. We need to change that. This bill will strengthen training and accountability standards for sexual assault and encourages universities to take proactive steps to create a safer campus environment. It is these types of bipartisan efforts that prove good policy is not based on whether you are a Democrat or a Republican; it is about whether you are solving the problems facing Virginians. We have just a few days until the Virginia Senate election on November 4 - if you give me the honor of rehiring me, I will continue to partner with those on both sides of the aisle to find commonsense solutions to expand opportunity and to move Virginia forward. Mark Warner is the senior United States Senator from Virginia.