 Gender studies has taken on a whole new meaning in a classroom at Boston
 College. Recently, Boston College professor and feminist philosopher Mary Daly refused to allow two male students to take her course, "Introduction to Feminist Ethics." Daly claims that allowing men in the class would make female students uncomfortable as they talk about and debate sensitive feminist ideas. What may seem like a disagreement over academic trivia actually raises interesting questions about how women and men should be viewed as we approach the next millennium. Mainstream feminist rhetoric in the last decade has been characterized by a call for equality in work and social spheres. We have seen sexual harassment laws strengthened, progress in wage parity and an infusion of women into positions of power and influence. Institutions like the Virginia Military Institute and the Citadel have opened their doors to women after long histories of single-sex admittance policies. What ties these events together is an overarching belief that women are equal to men and that we deserve to have the same opportunities and privileges as our male counterparts. It seems both interesting and disturbing, then, that there would still be some kind of support for a policy that encourages the separation of the sexes. Particularly troubling is the arena in which this separation takes place. The college classroom is a rare environment in which there can be a great give and take of ideas and views. Minds can be changed and opinions sharpened through intellectual discourse. But that can't happen when everyone isn't allowed to participate. Boston College's web site says that in "Introduction to Feminist Ethics II," students "will consider fundamental problems arising from the prevailing patriarchal myths and symbols, and the consequent reduction of women and nature to the status of objects." It sounds like a course that could have a broad appeal. After all, it isn't only women who are affected by the changing ideas and policies in our society. More than that, however, this class allows students of both sexes to explore ideas and beliefs that perhaps are different from their own. One of the students refused admittance to the class is a member of the BC College Republicans, and Daly said she believes he had a political agenda. "I'd rather go on leave than teach with him. The last thing he'd have an interest in is feminist philosophy," she told The Washington Post ("Feminist Ethics Course: No Place for Men," Feb. 26). That may be true, but perhaps this student needs the class more than anyone. His assumed political agenda may not fit in with Daly's beliefs, but the addition of a different opinion could only strengthen her teaching. This isn't a support group, it's a class. Why not see it as an opportunity to give the student a different perspective? More than the academic pros and cons of the situation, it creates a dangerous model for gender relations. We cannot in one breath claim women should be seen as equals, allowed to participate in the same activities as men, and in the next express support for all-female classes. Women cannot be equal on our own terms, when it's convenient for us. If "Introduction to Feminist Ethics" appears on Boston College's course listings, then it must be open to all students, regardless of their sex. This isn't the first we've heard about separating the sexes. A few years ago, a girls-only middle school in New York City came under attack. The principle behind the school's establishment was similar to Daly's justification for excluding men from her class. In response to studies that claimed boys are called on more than girls, an all-female learning environment was created to foster a more comfortable atmosphere. The problems involved in each are equally similar. In the real world, men and women must live together. We will be each other's bosses, colleagues, teachers, mentors and friends. Isolating each sex from one another, particularly in education, does not create a realistic portrayal of what the world is like. More importantly, it deprives each group from getting a complete picture. Maybe men and women do need something of their own--times when they can get together and bond with members of their own sex. There is nothing inherently wrong or unfair in that. But those times and experiences belong in the social realm--dinner with your girlfriends or a movie with the guys--not in the classroom or the workplaces, and not as part of any kind of institutionalized policy. In essence, what Daly is saying when she refuses to admit men into her classroom is that they don't belong; that they won't fit into a female environment; that the women in her classes won't be able to handle the presence of men. Her view does not strengthen the position of women. It shortchanges both sexes. That's a loss for everyone. (C) 1999 Cavalier Daily via U-WIRE