 She must have wanted to give up at least a thousand times. For Adrienne
 Ortolano, the 11 years she waited to bring her rapist to justice probably were filled with anger, frustration and pain. But somehow, she found the strength to keep believing that justice would be served. And then one day, it was. This Thursday, Adrienne Ortolano will speak at the annual Take Back the Night Rally, co-sponsored by the National Organization for Women and the University Women's Center. Each year, the event is held to raise awareness about sexual assault and to demand the University and the community continue to fight against it. The selection of Ortolano as the keynote speaker--whether consciously or unconsciously--emphasizes the crucial element of victim support in the battle against sexual assault. In 1986, 19-year-old Alex Kelly raped 16-year-old Ortolano in the back seat of a Jeep. Ortolano reported the rape to the police and Kelly was arrested. When the date of his trial arrived in 1987, however, Kelly failed to appear in court. In fact, he had fled to Europe with the help of his parents, and he lived there--mostly in luxurious ski lodges--for eight years. But Ortolano refused to accept the fact that her rapist might escape the law. For eight years, she helped the FBI search for Kelly. In 1995, he turned himself in to the Swiss police. And in July 1998, he was sentenced to 16 years in prison for the rape. He now awaits trial for a second rape that allegedly was committed only a few days after Ortolano's. Many believe that had Ortolano not come forward with her accusation, the second victim would have remained silent. After all, Kelly was a well-known, popular and wealthy member of the community. In fact, before Kelly fled the country, public support seemed overwhelmingly in his favor. For either victim, speaking out took an enormous amount of courage. Take Back the Night recognizes the role of the community in empowering sexual assault victims to speak out and fight like Ortolano did. The annual event actually has three parts. The first is a rally that takes place on the Downtown Mall, with speakers and music. When the rally concludes, the march begins, starting at the Downtown Mall and continuing down Main Street and Rugby Road and ending up at the Rotunda. It is this portion that usually garners the most attention--a mob of women and men chanting "Women unite/Take Back the Night" or "No matter how we dress/No matter where we go/Yes means yes and no means no" is hard to ignore. Yet it is the third section of the event that may be the most important. It is a candlelight vigil, where participants remember the victims of sexual assault, and victims in the crowd can share their stories with the audience. It is, at the same time, both devastating and uplifting. Because we often seem to think that activism is about who can scream the loudest or disrupt University life the most, this kind of quiet protest is unusual. But it is crucial. As vital as it is that we speak out loudly about sexual assault, and demand that the University do everything it can to prevent it, there is another important part of combating sexual assault. The part that the vigil reaches out to--supporting the victims. For victims of sexual assault, the terror doesn't end when the assault does. Victims often suffer severe emotional consequences, most commonly some form of post-traumatic stress disorder. Symptoms often include flashbacks, nightmares, insomnia, severe depression and mood swings. Victims can experience denial, fear, increased anger and anxiety and a loss of trust. The University gained a valuable resource this year in the battle against sexual assault with the creation of One in Four, an all-male sexual assault education organization. The aim of One in Four is to educate men about sexual assault --most specifically about how to help their female friends and family members cope. Because of this, they are not a highly visable organization--they concern themselves with the behind-the-scenes, the aftermath of sexual assault more than its prevention. But they are by no means less important. While it is important that any movement against sexual assault concern itself with raising awareness and making the community safe, it must not forget the victims. The key to combating sexual assault is to form a balance between the loud moments and the quiet ones. Victory doesn't only come in the form of a decrease in assault statistics. Every woman who finds the strength to stand up against her accuser in court, every woman who ends her silence by telling her story to someone, every woman who feels her pain lessen just a little because of our support is a victory of its own. We at the University are fortunate that so many of our sexual assault organizations understand this, and strive to give the victims of sexual assault the support and courage necessary to heal. And there is something else, equally important, that Take Back the Night gives victims: hope. Hope that so many outraged voices may prevent a rapist from striking again. Hope that with the support of the community, they may someday live their lives again without fear. Adrienne Ortolano found that hope, somehow. And took back her life. (C) 1999 Cavalier Daily via U-WIRE