
 University of Virginia spring fraternity pledges attended presentations on alcohol awareness and sexual assault this week as part of the Inter-Fraternity Council's new Pledge Education Week. The week will end Monday night with a final program on illegal drugs presented by Peer Health Educators. Under the new IFC program, having 100 percent attendance by pledges at the three events will fulfill a chapter's educational Fraternal Organization Agreement in the areas of alcohol, personal safety/sexual assault and illegal drugs. Two more events are scheduled for this year. Last year, a given percentage of each chapter's pledges and brothers were required to attend all five events. "In the past it's been very hard to get Greek men to participate in these events," said Kyle Evans, IFC chair for membership education. "This way, over the long run, every single person in the Greek system will be educated in these issues if they choose to do them." The five educational areas of the FOA are alcohol, personal safety/sexual assault, illegal drugs, diversity and hazing. Through Pledge Education Week, Evans said the IFC was able to reach an average of 370 men per education area, out of roughly 400 total pledges. "We're happy we're able to educate all these guys when before it would have been only a few brothers who attended," Evans said. ADAPT, a group devoted to combating alcohol and substance abuse, and One in Four, a sexual assault peer education organization, presented to the fraternity men earlier this week. Susan Bruce, director of the Center for Alcohol and Substance Education, said the ADAPT presentation covered drinking and driving, chapter responsibility for alcohol poisoning, emergency room policies and ways to prevent a conflict from escalating. "Hopefully they can take it somewhere and actually use it," said ADAPT member Angela Carrico, who presented Sunday and Monday. "We gave them different ways to help them stay safe." Tuesday and Wednesday, One in Four presented its program, "How to Help a Sexual Assault Survivor: What Men Can Do." President Jeremy Kokemor said the presentation covered tending to the survivor's needs, ending the cycle of violence, helping the survivor regain control and counseling, among other issues. The Peer Health Educator's outreach program, titled "Buzzed," is scheduled for Sunday and Monday nights. Coordinator Alison Beaver said it will address value-based issues such as marijuana legalization and prescription drug abuse. IFC President Ryan Ewalt said he worked with Aaron Laushway, associate dean of students and director of fraternity and sorority life, and former Program Coordinator Terry Dade over the summer to develop the program. "It's really encouraging for anyone to have a new program that's that successful," Ewalt said. "I think the system will be safer and more responsible as a result." (C) 2003 Cavalier Daily via U-WIRE