 On Thursday, March 26, a serious crime occurred in Cauthen dorm. The crime
 did not involve an assault, and the only actual threats came from the alleged victim. The crime was lying, resulting in exacerbated fears and the misallocation of police resources. According to Monday's lead editorial in The Cavalier Daily, "The alleged assault can be forgotten; the concern about crime on Grounds, however, cannot." If only it were that easy. Initially, we in no way can "ignore" the alleged assault. The alleged assault was a lie and a breach of the honor code. It also terrified University parents. University Department Police Chief Mike Sheffield said he couldn't "remember so many concerned parents' calls" ("Police expose alleged attack as fabrication," The Cavalier Daily, Apr.2, 1998). There was no specific victim, as in an assault, but the incident violated the security of both parents and students. The media and police are overzealous in releasing the names of accused sexual offenders. Wednesday, The Washington Post printed a woman's claim that she was sexually assaulted by National Basketball Association players Chris Webber and Juwan Howard ("Wizards official 'angry' at players," Apr.8, 1998). At this stage, authorities have collected little evidence linking the players to the crime. If the allegations are true, the media must inform the public of the threat these individuals pose to society. On the other hand, why should these allegations be printed before the woman's story has been even partially substantiated? In cases involving NBA player Dennis Scott and NFL player Michael Irvin, charges were dropped because there was no evidence connecting those individuals to their alleged crimes. Yet before the allegations were explored, the media readily vilified the players as animals. A woman's name should not necessarily be published when she claims to have been assaulted. The alleged victim should have the same level of privacy -- if not higher -- than the alleged assailant. It is unclear, however, why police are not releasing the name of the alleged victim in Cauthen dormitory on the grounds that they want to protect her privacy. She lied. She created chaos, fear and heightened security. Some could say violating her privacy would stop women who have been assaulted from accusing their attackers, but this makes no sense. Releasing her name only would send the message that liars will not be afforded privacy. Any woman who actually was assaulted still could have privacy while pressing charges. The other argument against releasing the alleged victim's name is that she possibly is mentally ill. Some are claiming that, instead of blaming the girl, we should be worried about her. But isn't any individual who commits sexual assault mentally ill? If individuals feel they have the right to violate the bodies of others; if they do not understand the psychological trauma they create when they assault or rape others, they must be mentally ill. There obviously is something unstable in one who rapes or attacks another, but we don't feel sorry for the rapist. We rightly punish this individual, at the very least to protect his past and potentially future victims. But can we assume the Cauthen female never before has accused someone of sexual assault? If she wrongly has accused someone of assault before -- even if the charges only served to tarnish the alleged assailant's reputation -- shouldn't he have the right to know that his accuser now has been caught in a lie? And shouldn't males who might interact with this female in the future have the right to know that she has lied about assault before? I sincerely hope we are not protecting the alleged victim merely because of her gender. Some claim that at least the false allegations raised awareness of sexual assault on Grounds. This is true, but they also occupied eight University Police officers with the investigation of false charges, preventing them from protecting other students and from investigating legitimate charges. And let us not forget that even good results such as raising awareness of assault do not justify dishonest acts. This anonymous individual must be revealed, and she must be brought up on honor charges. Sexual assault certainly is horrible. Unquestionably, however, false allegations of assault are not so insignificant that they can be forgotten. (C) 1999 Cavalier Daily via U-WIRE