 Following the March 14 arrest of Garnett James Lloyd on charges of
 breaking and entering the Delta Zeta sorority house, Charlottesville police announced yesterday that additional charges have been filed against Lloyd in conjunction with an earlier Oct. 17 break-in at the same house. Charlottesville Police Lt. Chip Harding said the 28-year-old Lloyd, an Orange County, Va. resident, also will be questioned regarding the Nov. 14 sexual assault and the Oct. 15 rape near Beta Bridge, but it was too early for police to make any formal allegations against him. "I want to make it very clear that we're not here to say [Lloyd] is connected to that rape at all, at this point," he said. But "we'd be remiss not to look at Mr. Lloyd" in conjunction with the sex attacks, he added. Police arrested Lloyd Monday at his parents' home in Orange County where he was residing in accordance with earlier bond conditions. The arrest came as a result of last week's investigations and suspect lineups. Police first apprehended Lloyd inside the Chancellor Street sorority house after being alerted by the Delta Zeta housemother that there was an intruder inside. After being charged with a felony count of breaking and entering with the intent to commit larceny, Lloyd was released on $ 10,000 bail. Delta Zeta was broken into three times in October. Between the break-ins, Delta Zeta sisters reported stolen undergarments and personal photographs as well as the use of their phone line to make $ 300 worth of 900-number sex calls. Harding said Lloyd declined to make any statements to police but the suspect insisted he was being treated for obsessive and compulsive disorders. Lloyd "said he was under medication to control certain sexual urges," he said. He added Lloyd declined to give a blood sample for DNA testing in conjunction with the Oct. 14 rape. "This was his opportunity to show the community he was not the person that committed those acts," Harding said. "He elected not to forfeit a sample that we need." Lloyd has a lengthy criminal history including instances of assault and battery charges for fondling sales clerks at local clothing stores, police report. Lloyd has been found guilty six times for sex related crimes and has served 84 days of total jail time. Harding said all of Lloyd's victims were women in their mid-twenties or younger. Lloyd now is being held without bond at the Charlottesville-Albemarle Joint Security Complex and undergoing evaluation by an appointed clinical psychologist. Harding said Lloyd could request a new bond hearing after his psychological evaluation is completed. Lloyd's preliminary hearing is tentatively set for April 22 at Charlottesville General District Court. Lloyd's attorney, Cheryl Higgins, could not be reached for comment. Harding said sexual predators sometimes are attracted by a university setting because students are often inexperienced and vulnerable. "If you're a hunter, you go where the deer are," he said. (C) 1999 Cavalier Daily via U-WIRE