 Sexual Assault Facts and Education, a student-run organization, is
 struggling to keep up its service of informing the University community. SAFE President Sarah Curtis-Fawley said since SAFE receives no support or funding from any offices at the University, when students fail to involve themselves, the organization fails to help students. Sexual Assault Education Coordinator Claire Kaplan and Curtis-Fawley both agreed that because SAFE deals with sexual assault issues, student involvement tends to be low. "It is difficult to do this work, and it is difficult as a student group to do this," Kaplan said. Curtis-Fawley agreed with Kaplan, stating that involvement in SAFE can be emotionally draining. "It's a hard commitment," she said. "People don't want to deal with [sexual assault] emotionally." University officials agreed that while SAFE is not the only resource for sexual assault education, if the organization closed because of lack of a student support, students would be less knowledgeable about sexual assault. "We have Residence Life staff involved, and Grounds for Discussion. There would still be education but [SAFE's] efforts would be missed," Dean of Students Robert T. Canevari said. Kaplan agreed, saying the loss of SAFE would largely impact the student community, not only because SAFE can be used as a sexual assault education resource, but also because it provides support for sexual assault survivors. Curtis-Fawley said she wants to keep SAFE a student-run organization, and student support must grow to enable SAFE to service all those who want sexual assault education programs. "I would like to see an involvement of 40 to 50 students," Curtis-Fawley said. "We have people calling us and we don't have the capacity to help them." Before the SAFE vigil held at the Rotunda Jan. 27 for sexual assault victims, Curtis-Fawley said SAFE's student involvement was at a severe low. She said only three or four students would come to SAFE meetings, but 20 or 30 students make up the organization's e-mail list. Although Curtis-Fawley said student interest in the organization has been dwindling in recent months, the vigil renewed student motivation to get involved. "I was almost ready to give up until after the vigil -- it's re-energizing to realize people do care," Curtis-Fawley said. SAFE held the vigil six days after fourth-year College student Keith Guerrini was tried for sexual assault with the use of a chemical inducement. Although the judge ordered the case dismissed for insufficient evidence, Curtis-Fawley said the trial rejuvenated student energy at SAFE. She said the Guerrini case made the University community more aware of sexual assault, sparking interest in the vigil. "The case refocused people's attention and made [sexual assault] real for them," Curtis-Fawley said. She said the vigil increased publicity for the organization, resulting in new members who raised the number of students involved from 4 and 5 to between 10 and 15, an improvement but not enough to support all of the needs of the community. To solve the problem of low student involvement and to keep the organization going, Curtis-Fawley said SAFE will publicize to increase student awareness, and conduct surveys to find out how University students would like to see SAFE involved in sexual assault education. (C) 1999 Cavalier Daily via U-WIRE