 "I'd like to say I'm happy to be here, but I'm not," said Aretha Donolie
 of the Sexual Assault Resource Agency, echoing the sentiments of the crowd gathered on the steps of City Hall for Thursday night's Take Back the Night rally. Her remark caused reflection among the crowd as they realized if it wasn't for the presence of violence, there would be no need for a rally. Between 300 and 400 women and men gathered on the Downtown Mall to protest violence against women. The rally is an annual event organized by the National Organization for Women at the University. The spectators rallied together before marching to the Rotunda for a candlelight vigil. During her speech, Dean of Students Penny Rue emphasized the importance of eliminating what she referred to as the "blame and shame mentality," in which the victim suffers the responsibility of the attack. She also recognized and thanked Commonwealth Attorney Dave Chapman, "who last week put one of the most heinous rapists away for a long, long time." Chapman successfully prosecuted Montaret Davis last week in Charlottesville Circuit Court for raping a female University student last August. Charlottesville Mayor Virginia Daughtery called for everyone to band together against sexual assault. Daugherty emphasized that everyone must hold on to their "sense of humor because this is an issue we don't want to get burned out on. We're in for the long run on this one." Voices for Interpersonal Violence Alternatives performed excerpts from "I Never Saw it Coming," pinpointing and breaking down stereotypes commonly held about the frequency and nature of sexual assault. Student Council Executive Vice President Matt Madden, a protester at the rally, said he felt "it's really important for people to be concerned because safety and violence is not just a women's cause." The crowd, bearing signs with slogans such as "Mister, Mister, get your hands off my sister!" exited to the musical stylings of local singer Devon, and began their march to the candlelight vigil held on the steps of the Rotunda, all the while chanting, "2, 4, 6, 8, stop the violence, stop the hate!" and "Hey, Hey, Ho, Ho, date rape has got to go!" Arriving at the Rotunda, protestors lit candles and listened to Black Voices before the beginning of the "Speak Out" portion of the rally, which included parts of narratives of women now held in prison for murdering their attackers. (C) 2000 Cavalier Daily via U-WIRE