 While there are several reasons why a victim might not report a rape to
 authorities, one of the main factors in not reporting the crime is the different perceptions of what constitutes rape. Members within the sexual assault outreach community feel that some women might not hold a properly defined notion of what rape really means. "Some women don't have a clear concept of what rape is," Women's Center Project Coordinator Zena Pedonoma said. Dean of Students Robert T. Canevari explained that the University uses the same definition of rape as the state's criminal code. The code states "if any person has sexual intercourse with a complaining witness who is not his or her spouse or causes a complaining witness to engage in sexual intercourse with any other person and such act is accomplished against the complaining witness's will, by force, threat, or intimidation ... or through the use of the complaining witness's mental incapacity or physical helplessness" the person is guilty of rape. But Canevari said some women do not know whether an unwanted sexual encounter, not necessarily sexual intercourse, constitutes rape. "There are women out there who don't know the definitions and who maybe are too accepting of a situation," he said. Even when a woman knows she was raped, she may blame herself for an unwanted act, which results in her silence. A woman might blame herself on the basis of her clothing or the way she interacts with a man. "Many women feel they did something to provoke it by dressing a certain way or acting in a certain manner," first-year student Bianca White said. "I haven't talked to a woman yet who doesn't blame herself in some way for what happened," said Cindy Lamm, Sexual Assault Resource Agency associate director. Perceptions of rape also can change drastically when the rapist is a date or an acquaintance. Dustin Burke, Sexual Assault Facts and Education president, said in some cases a woman may start out wanting to have sex, but decide not to later on in the date. "Sometimes there is a change of mind half-way through the date," Burke said, resulting in the woman feeling that she was to blame for misleading the man. The issue of drinking also blurs an already fuzzy boundary of sexual assault. Burke said "drinking exacerbates the circumstances" of sexual assault. Canevari said parties that involve alcohol can contribute to differing perceptions of rape. "Most of those party scenes can get pretty crazy," he said. "Some men don't understand what they're doing and that what they did was rape." He added that although both male and female University students are more educated now about rape than they were 10 to 15 years ago, "there's still work that needs to be done." Pedonoma agreed that education is a key factor in both preventing and reporting assaults. She said one reason for the occurrence of rape is that both women and men sometimes lack knowledge about rape and their options in the event of an assault. "There are a lot of people that don't know their rights," Pedonoma said. Canevari said some University programs have been helping to educate students about their rights and about how to change a bad situation to a less dangerous one. He said the Grounds for Discussion program for first-year students during orientation is one example of a program that educates students on how to prevent sexual assault, by showing both a male and female making safe decisions in a date rape scenario. Canevari also praised the efforts of fraternities and sororities to provide personal safety programs, as well as informal conversations in residence halls about sexual assault, which he has heard about from residents and Resident Assistants. Other than not having clear understanding of what constitutes an assault, another reason for the small number of reported rapes could be women's lack of confidence in authorities. Many women might see the process of reporting a rape as a greater ordeal than the rape itself. "The drawn-out process involved after a rape can make it more difficult for the victim to put it in her past," Burke said. Women may even be afraid of others' reactions. "A woman may feel no one will believe her," Burke said. (C) 1999 Cavalier Daily via U-WIRE