 About 100 students, staff and faculty presented University Rector John P.
 Ackerly III with a proposal calling for the Board to support a living wage for University employees at the steps of the Rotunda Friday afternoon. The Labor Action Group, which organized the event, proposed that the University raise the minimum wage for University employees to "a base pay of no less than $ 8 per hour with annual adjustments for no less than 100 percent of the federal poverty level for a family of four." The current daytime minimum wage for University employees is $ 6.13 an hour. Such a wage increase would affect the classified employees, who are employed by the state. Ackerly said the Board is not in a position to help raise the minimum wage. "I view this matter primarily one for the administration and the Commonwealth of Virginia," he said. "But I will be glad to take this petition back to the Board." Leonard W. Sandridge, executive vice president and chief financial officer, agreed with Ackerly and said he does not know how the Board could respond to the concerns. "Clearly it's a state issue--it is difficult to see how the Board can handle it," Sandridge said. Despite Ackerly and Sandridge's statements, participants in the picket said the Board can influence the state. "They are the governing body of the University--they can make things happen because the living wage issue is not going away," LAG member and third-year Law student Jody Calemine said. "One-third of the University's employees may be eligible for food stamps. Jefferson's Academical Village has become an academical sweatshop," he said. Along with the proposed resolution, Calemine also submitted a petition with signatures of over 1,000 students, faculty and staff members in support of a living wage to Ackerly. "No one working full time should live in poverty," Calemine said. The LAG proposal asks the Board to state their support for a living wage, and to allow University employees to "assemble freely over the issues of working conditions at the University, without fear of reprisal." Fourth-year College student Dan Warner said the Board lobbied in Richmond for the creation of a satellite campus in Qatar, but "does not care enough to lobby for people to live." Sexual Assault Education Coordinator Claire Kaplan suggested the Board re-examine the University's budget to find a way to pay employees a living wage. "There are always ways of finding money when it is important--as an institution of higher education that is pretty well funded, we have a moral obligation to ensure that no employee is forced to live under the poverty line," Kaplan said. (C) 1999 Cavalier Daily via U-WIRE