 Last night, about 20 members of the University community took part in a
 lighting tour, an annual event sponsored by University Police that surveys safety problems resulting from deficient lighting around Grounds. The purpose of the security 'walk' is to make sure "there are not just a few people giving judgment," University Police spokeswoman Kirstin Curtis said. Participants drove around Grounds for about three hours, checking up on the effectiveness of current lighting and locating blue safety phones. This year's walk took on particular importance as it comes on the heels of a rash of attacks in the University vicinity. On Sept. 21, a female University student was a victim in the East University Hall parking lot. Since March, eight attacks on Charlottesville women have occurred in the University area. "This lighting tour is very useful. Past history has proven that problem areas can be identified" and dealt with, said Jeff Sitler, an Environmental Health and Safety official. "It is definitely an ongoing process ... because things change." During the tour, participants noted certain areas that needed extra safety measures. Because of their input, the parking lots on Jefferson Park Avenue and Brandon Avenue's Bice House will receive new emergency phones. The lower east lot at University Hall also probably will receive a few additional light fixtures. The group examined lighting at the entrance to Kerchoff Hall and at McLeod Hall. Culbreth Lane, where a rape was reported last July, most likely will receive additional lighting and tree trimming. New emergency phones at Culbreth should be up and running during the next few days. One of the primary reasons for holding the walk each year is the fact that lighting and other safety problems are constantly changing, University Police Chief Mike Sheffield said. For example, Sheffield said, growing trees often block light. "We're in kind of a constant battle with the people who put them in," he said. Many of the lights on Grounds are historical reproductions costing at least $ 2,000 each and another $ 2,000 to install. Emergency telephones cost about $ 2,500 for the phone and the installation. The University Security and Safety Committee is allowed $ 50,000 yearly for improvements. "We will develop a list of priorities with the estimated costs and go as far down the list as we can with our $ 50,000," Committee Chairman Bill Wilkerson said. Despite the need for improvements cited on last night's tour, Sheffield said, overall the University does a very good job in meeting students' safety concerns. "When you compare us to other institutions, I think we have a very safe institution," he said. Students attending the walk last night said it highlighted many key issues regarding safety around Grounds. "Safety is definitely an issue we need to be concerned about. ... I know we're doing a lot of good by being here," Student Council College Rep. Katie Russell said. Fourth-year College student Jennifer Alt, who interns with the University Police Department, said it is difficult to notice specific safety problems during the day or when with a group of people. "I think a lot of times I don't realize safety issues until I'm walking by myself," Alt said. (C) 1999 Cavalier Daily via U-WIRE