 AT U.VA., we love to talk about diversity. Those who think multicultural
 problems are minimal express disdain for their opponents--those frustrated with inefficient minority resources, segregation concerns and subtle and blatant displays of racism. But we can most efficiently examine these diversity issues by looking at the way we treat the largest group recognized as a minority: women. The treatment of women at the University is a multilevel exercise in discrimination against and tolerance of a minority population. Anthropologists and sociologists have gone to great lengths to explain women's subservient role in mainstream American culture. According to some of these scholars, a woman is constrained by her biological make-up, her role as a mother. Her reproductive burdens and ensuing responsibilities bind her to nature and biology. These duties mark her social status and determine her social activities. Biology is destiny, right? So American women do the "natural" stuff: domestic work, child rearing and the like. These same scholars consequently attach man (woman's opposite) to culture (nature's opposite). Morals and religion, technology and government all fall into men's cultural sphere. We value them over nature because technology is the mark of civilization, and civilization breeds social status. In the WordPerfect thesaurus, "higher" is an antonym for "natural." Flaws in these scholars' theories illuminate our society's seemingly uncontrollable need to oppress women. Even when we see men as driven by biological urges and thus closer to nature, women still get the short end of the stick. Women's ties to culture--represented by strata such as finishing schools, delicate fashions and the opera--don't hold a candle to men's military academies, rugged gear and football games. We trivialize women's issues and continue to exert male dominance. We endlessly profess men's superiority. And recently, women's subservience has been clearly manifested on Grounds. One woman's extraordinary displays of self-defense have been overshadowed by men's efforts to protect our girls. A very strong-willed and respectably defiant woman thwarted the "Rugby Rapist's" most recent attempt. Yet it was the Inter-Fraternity Council--the men of Rugby Road--who initiated a student watch program in the area. This furthers the idea that women need to be protected by men, ideas that fundamentally represent the oppression of women. These chauvinistic views follow us into our dorms and classrooms. In co-educational dorms where men and women are separated by floor, women cannot occupy rooms on the first floor. You've got to go through the men before you can get to the women. Women account for over 50 percent of our total student population. However, the same percentages do not apply to the hard sciences; women take up few seats in both the Engineering School and Darden School of Business. Men still do the hard work, and women write anthropology essays, English papers and other assignments in the liberal arts. We like to think of ourselves as progressive when it comes to our attitudes towards women. And in comparison to many international cultures--the Middle East, for example--we're right. American women work, vote and hold public offices. But many still experience sexual harassment in their workplaces, and have to overcome serious obstacles--glass ceiling, anyone?--in their pursuits of material success. Let's face it, too many of us still feel that a woman's role as a caregiver precedes any of her other responsibilities. Too many women accept their subservient role and go to all ends of the earth to please their men. They get fake body parts--nails, hair, breasts--to make themselves appear more attractive to the opposite sex. They dream of being secretaries instead of having secretaries. They aspire to be nurses, not doctors; kindergarten teachers, not college professors. And men support this. They hire women for entry-level positions and grant executive slots to other men. They restrict entry into country clubs and secret societies. They treat their women like fragile objects rather than strong human beings. These attitudes toward women illuminate the treatment of other minorities in our culture. Some think that because blacks and Hispanics now can attend formerly all-white universities and hold prominent positions in major corporations, racism is gone, that no further actions need to be taken. But as we bask in the light of our progress, we run the risk of neglecting the tasks that still remain. So long as men still objectify women, whites will oppress racial minorities. We justify our treatment of women like we rationalize our attitudes toward ethnic minorities. While we criticize cultures that practice discrimination and ethnic cleansing, we accept the same vices--however subtle--in our own society. Problems of diversity, while increasingly less serious, still plague our University in several ways. If you treat your mother differently than your father, ask yourself why. Then ponder the greater implications of your attitude. You may surprise yourself. (C) 1999 Cavalier Daily via U-WIRE