
 The University of Virginia Judiciary Committee has charged one student in connection with an investigation into an incident of racial harassment reported by a resident adviser in Page House, a first-year dormitory. Some members of Student Council are calling for the implementation of a mandatory diversity pledge and the Minority Rights Coalition is seeking to publicize the University's bias incident reporting Web site in response to the incident. The RA, Chelsea Conanan, wrote in a widely disseminated e-mail that she was in the midst of reporting a violation of the Standards of Conduct in her room early last December, when two of her residents called her various racial epithets. Bias incidents alone do not always violate UJC standards. A suspect had received a citation from Conanan prior to the incident, distinguishing it from other reported incidents of racially motivated slurs, and possibly making it a UJC offense. "What's unique about this case is that there's a context to it and that the individual has been charged," said Maurice Apprey, dean of the Office of African-American Affairs. He said the incident is currently under investigation by UJC and a student has been charged. Conanan met with student leaders and administrators including Apprey, Dean of Students Penny Rue, Pat Lampkin, vice president for student affairs, and members of UJC and Residence Life. "It's now in the hands of UJC," Apprey said. Organizations across the University are taking action in response to the incident. Ryan McElveen, chair of Diversity Initiatives for Student Council, said his organization wants to increase transparency in the reporting of bias incidents, especially those of a racial nature. A proposal for a diversity pledge for first years will be brought before the Student Council governing body Tuesday night,McElveen said. "Something like a diversity pledge will cause people to realize that we have problems with this, and we need to pay more attention to it," he said. The MRC is working to publicize the bias reporting Web site, Just Report It, which tallies incidents that occur within the University community. It is also encouraging transparency as the UJC processes the case in light of the new clauses involving hate incidents introduced to the constitution this fall, MRC Chair Patrick Martinez said. "A lot of people are seeing what the University does about it and what steps are being taken," Martinez said. "The University reassured me and other leaders in the minority community that they are taking care of this, and it's something that they are treating vigorously." (C) 2007 Cavalier Daily via U-WIRE