 Legislation now pending in the House of Representatives could mean that
 students across the nation have a more accurate perspective on hate crimes at the nation's college campuses. If, in upcoming weeks, House of Representatives officials pass The Campus Hate Crimes Right to Know Act, colleges would be forced to more fully report hate crime statistics -- a change that could give students a clearer picture of their university's environment. Sen. Robert Torricelli (D-N.J.) first proposed the original legislation in November. Specifically, the bill require colleges to release additional information on hate crimes, including vandalism, intimidation and simple assault. University Police Captain Michael Coleman said the bill will make students more aware of hate crimes. But he said many of the proposed changes already have been followed by the University Police Department for years, including publication of larceny offenses. "We've already had a pretty strong reporting program in effect," Coleman said. The bill "will have very little effect on what we're doing." Even so, Torricelli spokesman Jon Paone said these new measures will help the University because they will help prospective college students make educated choices when selecting a university. Universities now are required only to report hate crimes resulting in serious felonies like rape, murder or aggravated assault, as dictated by the 1990 Campus Security Act. The bill will enable "incoming students and existing students to have a clearer picture of the existence and the extent to which hate crimes exist on campus," Paone said. "Going in, these students should know exactly what they're getting into." The bill also proposes to expand the definition of hate crimes to include acts directed against female and/or disabled citizens. Colleges also must report hate crimes motivated by race, religion, sexual orientation or ethnicity, but not instances of crime directed against a victim because of gender or personal disability. An expanded hate crime definition would be key on college campuses, as younger people are more likely to commit hate crimes, especially those now not publicized, Paone said. Here at the University, officials said students would inevitably benifit from the change because of the disclosure of additional information. Dean of Students Robert T. Canevari said he believes increased publication of crime information might help to broaden public awareness of crime. "I think all of us sometimes are a little bit oblivious to crime unless it happens in our backyard," Canevari said. "The more people are aware of crime, the better off for everybody." Third-year College student Jessie Gilliam, National Organization for Women University chapter president, said she would encourage increased reporting of hate crimes. "I think there are a lot of small hate crimes that happen at this University," Gilliam said. "I think things like this are a big deal ... because in a lot of situations, silence indicates acceptance." In terms of the impact on other universities, Coleman said students at other colleges will benefit the most because officials will be forced to follow policies the University already adheres to. Specifically, Coleman said the new five-year record stipulation -- which would require police officials to publically release information about crimes committed in the past five years -- could create mountains of back-tracking and paperwork for departments not now calculating these statistics. This is especially true if the proposal includes the new hate crime definition. (C) 1999 Cavalier Daily via U-WIRE