 The term "role model" is tossed around quite a bit in sports today.
 And all too often the story uses it to describe what the athlete is not, whether it consists of the baseball star accused of rape, the football player caught for drunk driving or the basketball phenom that cheated on an exam. Occasionally, though, some shoulder-padded hero comes along to show that the term "athletic role model" still exists; that the stage athletes are thrust upon does not simply show a one-act play filled with drug busts and gun charges; that an athlete, if only every once in a while, really can make a difference. Few other athletes better fill this role than Duke wide receiver Corey Thomas. The Blue Devils' star's off-the-field accomplishments and attitudes make even his record-setting gridiron success look insignificant. "I've done a lot of speaking in churches and schools," Thomas said. "I love to give a lot back to the community, since God has given so much to me." Thomas also uses his status as a premiere athlete to speak with children in hospitals and recently served as a counselor in a local Durham YMCA summer camp program. "There were 12 individual black kids from underprivileged families that didn't have fathers," Thomas said about the program. "We were like big brothers, trying to provide role models." As part of the program, Thomas and a Duke professor taught the kids about the Civil Rights movement, taking them across the South to see the historical locations first-hand. "We're trying to show that there is hope in the black community," Thomas said. "And that the future looks bright. "I still get phone calls from [the kids at the camp] now telling me how they are doing," he said. "I'd like to do it again this summer. It was not a lot of money or anything, but it was such a great experience." Given his beliefs, it is not surprising Thomas chose his college based on more than just the number of recent bowl appearances, selecting the Blue Devils from a group as diverse as Alabama and Harvard. "I'm the first one in my family to get the chance to go to school," Thomas said. "I thought about going to an Ivy League school, but then I worried I wouldn't get a lot of [football] exposure there. So I figured why not go to an Ivy League [caliber] school in the ACC that gets a lot of national attention. "I could have busted my knee in the first game and never gotten the chance to play football again," he said. "But the one thing football can't take away from you is your mind." Thomas, who calls the upcoming matchup with Virginia Duke's "toughest game of the season," scorched the Cavalier defense and former All-ACC cornerback Ronde Barber for 13 catches for 132 yards and a pair of touchdowns -- all career highs -- during his last trip to Scott Stadium. Thomas enters Saturday's contest as one of the most veteran players in Division I football. After a red-shirt season, the fifth-year senior has started every game he has been at Duke -- beginning with his impressive debut against Maryland in 1994. "My first catch was a touchdown, and that really gave me confidence," Thomas said. "And if you give me confidence, I can kill you. After that, the transition [to college play] was really easy for me." Thomas, who currently stands among the top seven in the Duke receiving annals for career catches, yardage and touchdowns, said all his experience has made him a better football player. "Nobody can show me anything I haven't seen," Thomas said. "They can't shock me. I've played against a lot of great players, a lot of players that are now in the NFL." While Thomas always has been a consistent performer, his long career has allowed him to fall along the full spectrum of team success. Thomas described the change as "like night and day" between the Blue Devils' Hall of Fame Bowl team his first year and last years' 0-11 squad. "I think you can learn a lot about a person's character by how they respond to adversity around them," Thomas said. Last year "was a really tough season, but I came through smiling the same way I did in 1994." Thomas' already gaudy receiving numbers become even more impressive in light of the fact that since his first season the Wilson, N.C., native has not had the luxury of establishing any degree of rapport with a quarterback. Thomas has teamed up with an incredible seven Duke signal callers and has caught touchdown passes from five. In typical fashion, Thomas managed to find a bright side of the Durham-based quarterbacking carousel. "I've got used to seeing different quarterbacks, different ways of throwing the ball," he said. "And it has helped me develop as a receiver and will be useful if I do go to the NFL where I might have to deal with a lot of different quarterbacks." While Thomas' gridiron success and athletic ability lead many draft gurus to believe he will be playing on Sundays next year, the aspiring teacher said professional football is only one option for his future. "If I get a shot [in the NFL], that would be great, but if things don't work out, the world's not going to come to an end," Thomas said. "I'll get the chance to do some teaching and give back to the community." This paper was published on October 16, 1997 by The Cavalier Daily, Inc., at the University of Virginia. Created using: WebWeaver 5.1 You may not reproduce the contents of this paper in any shape or form without the express written consent of The Cavalier Daily . 1996 All Rights Reserved (C) 1999 Cavalier Daily via U-WIRE