 Despite Saturday's announcement that Thomas Jefferson is the likely father
 of his slave Sally Hemings's son, University students are hesitant to condemn their school's founder. Second-year College student Tim Estes, who is president of the non-partisan student-based Jefferson Leadership Foundation, said he still respects Jefferson even after the all-but-conclusive finding made by retired University Pathology Prof. Eugene Foster. "In judging historical figures, you must separate the man from the ideals," Estes said. "This research does not taint what Jefferson stood for." But Foster's DNA evidence does confirm the almost 200-year-old claim that Jefferson fathered a son with one of his slaves. The scientific analysis, which is detailed in the Nov. 5 issue of the science journal Nature, used genetic material from Jefferson's and Hemings' descendants to prove that the nation's third president fathered the slave's youngest son Eston Hemings. Geneticists compared blood from descendents of both families and found that both Jefferson and Hemings descendents shared similar Y chromosomes--male genetic material that passes almost unchanged from generation to generation. While Estes believes the evidence is strong, he said "Nothing is for certain. It may be a few weeks, maybe months before the results are looked over by people in the field. It's important to have a moderated reaction and not make a knee-jerk judgement." For other students, the finding only verifies what they already believed. Fourth-year College student Dana Richburg said she believes Jefferson fathered more than one child with Sally Hemings. "He told her he would free the children when they turned 21, and he did free most of the Hemings and made sure they had extensive skills," Richburg said. "They were his kids, clearly." Jefferson's reputation as a leading engineer of America's political system probably will prevail at the University. Though students deeply respect Jefferson, some of them were not surprised by the scientific discovery. "As a U.Va. student, it's easy to get caught up in the nostalgia of Thomas Jefferson and glorify him," Student Council President Howard A. Foard III said. "But I'm not surprised by the finding. Many slave owners had kids with slaves." But Richburg said she is afraid some University enthusiasts will refuse to believe the evidence in order to maintain an idolized view of Jefferson. "A lot of people will go into denial. For these people, Jefferson will be the man no matter what," she said. "At times the fact that some people aren't acknowledging that slavery occurred is upsetting and infuriating. Jefferson owned slaves. He was just a man." Foard agreed and said he sees Jefferson's use of slavery as more damaging to his character than his secret affair with Sally Hemings. "We need to recognize that slavery did occur," he said. Many students echoed Foard's concerns. "The fact that he had a child with a slave is not a big deal to me since his wife [Martha] had died" in 1782, third-year College student Matt Kramer said. "What concerns me is the larger issue that this was a person who was his property. The fact that Jefferson owned slaves is a more disturbing issue for me." Other students noted Jefferson's contradictory values--he vocalized discontent with the institution of slavery while he owned slaves. College Republicans President Mike Jeffreys defended Jefferson's apparent hypocrisy. "Jefferson was a great man, but there were some things about him that were less than admirable," Jeffreys said. "I don't think he was happy owning slaves. He was a man with the same emotions we have, and he owned slaves because he didn't know how to survive in the southern economy without it. "People run into trouble when they try to classify him as a good man or a bad man," he said. "The distinctions don't have to be exclusive." While the DNA evidence shows that Jefferson probably did in fact father a child with one of his slaves, the investigation cannot provide insight to the nature of the relationship between Jefferson and Hemings. But Kramer said he believes Jefferson abided by the same moral standards about which he wrote. "After reading many of his writings and going to this school, you get the sense that you know him," he said. "I always received the impression he was concerned with moral issues. He wouldn't force himself on another human being. It must have been love." Kramer acknowledged that slave rape was a common practice by owners. "If it was rape, then you have to say that his reputation is tarnished," he said. Other students said historians should not overlook the nature of the master/slave relationship. Foard said there is no difference between Jefferson raping Hemings or engaging in consensual sex with her. Hemings was owned by Jefferson, which simply made the act an abuse of power. "The fact of the matter is that he had a relationship with a slave," he said. "Power should not be what a relationship is about." "We can't overlook the fact that she was a slave," Richburg said. "She may not have had a choice since he owned her and could legally do as he wished." The recent evidence about Eston Hemings's paternity has political repercussions outside of Charlottesville. In the midst of the Clinton-Lewinsky scandal, the report proves that historic figures also are susceptible to scandal. Many students compared Jefferson's and Clinton's actions. "Just as you shouldn't deify a founding father, you shouldn't diminish him to justify a modern leader's behavior," Estes said. "Both figures exhibited reckless moral behavior, but Jefferson showed better judgement. Jefferson wasn't married, and he showed a sense of honor by being generous to the girl." Jeffreys said he disagreed with people who condemn Jefferson but defend Clinton. "Some people want to tar and feather Jefferson," he said. "These same people want to excuse Clinton for lying under oath. Jefferson never perjured himself. He had a forbidden love, and the relationship was Shakespearean sad." But he added that while he does not think Jefferson should be condemned for the affair, he thinks the relationship was morally wrong. "Even if it was love, the relationship could not have been good," Jeffreys said. "Since slavery was morally incorrect, anything coming out of slavery, including this relationship, was morally incorrect." Other students said historians should incorporate the new findings into Jefferson's overall reputation. "We shouldn't ignore the relationship," Kramer said. "It must be included in any biography so people can decide for themselves how moral Jefferson was. Ultimately, we have to accept Jefferson's use of slavery and the relationship [with Hemings] as two of Jefferson's flaws." (C) 1999 Cavalier Daily via U-WIRE