 With many students using the Internet on a daily basis, organizations
 around Grounds are taking advantage of the availability and anonymity the Internet allows. The University Women's Center now offers individuals the opportunity to file third-party sexual assault reports over the Internet. The reports can be anonymous and cannot be traced. The third-party report forms can be accessed from the Women's Center's web page. Previously, anonymous third-party report forms were available at various places on Grounds, such as the Dean of Students Office; however, University officials cited the convenience of the Internet as a reason for offering the opportunity to make reports over the internet. "We wanted to provide students with another option to report sexual assault," Sexual Assault Education Coordinator Claire N. Kaplan said. All third-party report forms are used for statistical purposes only and cases are not investigated without a request to contact the person who filled out the form, Kaplan said. "This helps us to keep better track of sexual assaults -- we get the information anonymously off the Internet and give it to the University Police Department," Kaplan said. "We couldn't contact anyone unless they gave us their name." Kaplan said there was no indication there would be a rise in reports, but "we are hoping more students will report more incidents," she said. Kaplan said the idea behind offering third-party report forms on the Internet came from the realization of "how much students use the Internet and to make it more accessible." The Women's Center's web page previously had an "un-useful survey on it about general knowledge [of sexual assault] and people didn't use it so we decided to reconfigure it," Kaplan said. University Police Spokeswoman Kirsten Curtis said the third party reports will operate the same way they did before, but now police statistics will include reports from the Internet. Curtis echoed Kaplan's assurances of the anonymity of the reports. "We cannot investigate unless someone reports it to us -- these reports are generally for statistical purposes, " and sometimes third-party reports are about long-standing incidents, Curtis said. Sarah Curtis-Fawley, former president of Sexual Assault Facts and Education, was enthusiastic about web access to report forms. "One problem with reporting is that people are hesitant to go into public and call attention to themselves by asking for a third-party sexual assault form," Curtis-Fawley said. Curtis-Fawley hoped the forms would give the University a more accurate picture of the numbers of sexual assault incidents, and where these incidents repeatedly occur so police can monitor better those areas. (C) 1999 Cavalier Daily via U-WIRE