 The University of Virginia and a group of concerned parents are combining
 resources to offer a $ 10,000 reward for information leading to the arrest of a man who broke into a female student's apartment Thursday, held up her male friend at gunpoint and then raped her. The anonymous group of parents met with University officials Saturday to double the University's initial $ 5,000 offer. President John T. Casteen III praised the parents' initiative during his speech to first-year students and their parents Saturday afternoon. A large reward could lead to a swift arrest of the suspect, Casteen said. "We're convinced it will make a significant difference in the investigation," said Leonard W. Sandridge, executive vice president and chief financial officer. The suspect, described as a black, heavyset man between 5 feet 8 inches and six feet tall, in his mid-20s, also robbed the two students. The incident occurred in the Venable area, between 15th Street NW and Rugby Road off of Grady Avenue, Charlottesville Police Lt. J. E. "Chip" Harding said. Harding declined to give more a more specific location to protect the identity of the victims. After returning home from a party at about 4 a.m., the victims returned home to the female's residence. "The male, a friend, stayed the night and they fell asleep on a bed with their clothes on," Harding said. "The male awoke to a handgun being pushed against the side of his head. The assailant told them to switch places" on the bed. The assailant would not let the male look at him and blindfolded the female with her shirt after he raped her, he said. The description the victims were able to give Charlottesville police came from "instinct" and what little they were able to glimpse of their attacker, he added. After the rape, the assailant "forced the female to take a shower," to ensure no evidence was left that might assist police in determining his identity, Harding said. Although there was a second female in another bedroom in the apartment, the two students told the assailant no one else was home. But when the assailant heard a toilet flush he became agitated and made the victims knock on the bedroom door of the other student. She was unaware there was an intruder in the house and did not answer the door. Before leaving, the assailant forced the two victims into a room and threatened to kill them if they left or called the police, Harding said. Before notifying the police, the male student drove the female student to the University Medical Center at about 7:30 or 8 a.m., he said. Four forensic detectives are inspecting the entire house for DNA, fibers and fingerprints and compiling a list of potential suspects, he added. Investigators have not excluded the possibility that the incident is related to an Oct. 15 rape that occurred under Beta Bridge on Rugby Road, but the two incidents do not appear to be related, due to the rapists' different behaviors, he said. Both University Police and Charlottesville Police increased their patrol of the area due to the incident. University Police said they have been fielding calls from concerned parents and students. In response, police officials and University administrators are trying to step up community safety awareness. "We are providing some extra patrol in that area and assisting the city in any way we find possible," University Police Captain Michael Coleman said. "We have security seminars in all first year dorms and Rape Aggression Defense classes for women. We also encourage all students to use the Escort Service and if walking, travel in groups." Unfortunately crimes against students do happen, despite safety precautions, University Police Chief Mike Sheffield said. "We're not immune to any types of crime or criminal activity," Sheffield said. "You can put all the safe practices in place and still be victimized." (C) 1999 Cavalier Daily via U-WIRE