 Debate surrounded the University's honor and judiciary systems as they
 experienced unprecedented scrutiny concerning case procedures, efficiency and trial fairness during the past year. The close examination initiated major changes, including revisions in the Judiciary Committee's Standards of Conduct and steps to make Honor juries racially proportional to the student body. Adapting to a large increase in initiated honor and judicial cases proved to be the primary challenge during the fall semester. Judiciary Committee members faced a less significant increase in the number of cases, but reported more severe Standards violations than in past years. Increased community awareness led to examination of honor system procedures early in the spring semester. Black Student Alliance and Black Law Students Association members presented a list of concerns to the Honor Committee Feb. 22, demanding reforms in jury composition, case initiation processes, diversity training, support officer recruitment and Committee efficiency in order to make the system more fair for minority students. In response, the Committee created task force groups during that meeting to address each issue. After several heated Committee meetings, each attended by more than 70 BSA members, Committee members began to discuss and implement bylaw changes by March 1. One bylaw aimed to ensure that jury pools were proportional to the University's racial demographics. Another bylaw targeted over-long trial processes by requiring the Committee to drop a pending case after 40 days of investigation, unless deemed "extraordinary" by the Executive Committee. The Committee also organized the Athletic Honor Liaison Association to provide better communication between athletes, faculty and Honor officials. In the semester's final weeks, newly elected Committee members continued to investigate new bylaws and procedural reforms. Members also planned to reinstitute meeting protocol outlined in Robert's Rules of Order to streamline next year's Committee meetings. While the Honor Committee worked on bylaw reforms, the UJC reevaluated its own system with a proposal to revise the University's Standards of Conduct, which outline impermissible behavior for University students. Members drafted the proposal to clarify language and jurisdiction. The newly-elected UJC officially presented the revisions to the University's General Council Sunday and hopes to have Board of Visitors approval within the next year. The UJC also prided itself for receiving Board approval on sexual assault procedures, taking in the University Mediation Service as an affiliate of the UJC and for re-implementing the Student Legal Defense Fund as a bail payment service. The UJC also made official an expedited trial process for violations concerning alcohol possession at University sporting events. (C) 1999 Cavalier Daily via U-WIRE