 Continuing the investigation into the recent attacks of two University
 students, Charlottesville and University Police have teamed up to investigate the incidents and address community concerns, but still are withholding details about any possible leads. Police declined to comment on the specifics of new leads, but did announce an increase in possible leads following University Police Chief Michael Sheffield's Nov. 20 open e-mail to the University community concerning the crimes. Anonymous tips have come in from as far as Richmond, Sheffield said. Police mobilization came in response to the Oct. 15 rape of a student under Beta Bridge and a Nov. 14 assault of another University female student on 17th St. Police also have been investigating possible connections of the two assaults to the recent break-ins of Chancellor St. sorority houses. The perpetrator stole photos of sorority sisters and made several 1-900 telephone calls. While the crimes may be connected, Charlottesville Police remain doubtful the same person committed both the robberies and the assaults. "We cannot exclude the fact that they may be connected," Charlottesville Police Lt. Chip Harding said. "But, three of the composites are very similar and the one from the sorority appears clearly different." Following the second attack, University Police announced the formation of a University and Charlottesville Police task force concerning the assaults. "In general [the Charlottesville Police Department] has their own manpower," University Police spokeswoman Kirsten Curtis said. "However, we have officers working closely with the Charlottesville Police on the rape and sexual assault cases." Both police units have worked to increase public safety awareness while easing some of the community's anxiety. However, many students have disregarded recent safety warnings. Police frequently have found students walking alone and leaving their doors unlocked. "The only thing I'm certain of is that we have tons of female students walking alone along dark pathways and shortcuts," Harding said. Concern in the community and among parents still remains high, largely because of speculation and rumors in the community, University and police officials said. "I think there's a lot of rumors going around," Curtis said. "People are concerned, and they should be, but panic's not going to help anybody." Dean of Students Robert T. Canevari emphasized the importance of accurate information and commonsense decision making. "It's important to separate fact from fiction," Canevari said. "Safety is an issue that always needs to be at the forefront of one's mind." The University has appropriated $ 80,000 for the General Safety and Security Committee in order to improve safety in the Rugby Road Area and support a Student Watch program to involve community members. University Police said they are trying to establish a third van for the Escort Service and now are seeking volunteers. (C) 1999 Cavalier Daily via U-WIRE