 More than 100 people cupped flickering candles in their hands and watched
 with solemn faces as rape survivors walked up the University of Virginia's Rotunda steps Thursday evening. The survivors emerged from the audience to share their stories at the 15th annual Take Back the Night event. The speakers drew tears from many audience members, who said the stories were deeply moving. "The strength it takes to get up there and share your story is more than I can put into words," said second-year College student Katy Shrum, president-elect of the University chapter of the National Organization for Women. "When they get up there, they might be helping themselves by talking about it, but they're helping everyone else so much more." The survivor speak-out is the main purpose of Take Back the Night, an annual event sponsored by NOW. Other events immediately preceding the vigil last night included a rally and march. A week of presentations and discussions led up to Thursday night's main events. Organizers stressed the importance of raising awareness about violence against women. "A lot of people come here not knowing it's a college issue," said Lara Eilhardt, third-year College student and current NOW co-president. "It's making people think -- could this happen in my life?" As night fell, participants stretched out on the grass at the foot of the Rotunda as musicians, dancers, performers and speakers from various organizations launched the rally. Red wooden silhouettes of Virginia women who died as a result of violence encircled the crowd. Speakers from NOW addressed the immediacy of the problem of violence against women at the University, reminding the audience of the assault on second-year College student Daisy Lundy in February and the January murder of fourth-year College student Monica Long by her husband. "This is not a distant problem," Eilhardt told the people gathered in front of her. "This is not a problem that just happens to people we don't know." A march through Grounds and the Rugby Road area followed the rally. Marchers carried signs and shouted cheers such as, "Whatever we wear, wherever we go, yes means yes and no means no!" As participants walked by stores on the Corner and fraternity houses, many diners leaving restaurants and fraternity brothers joined in the chants. "It's important for everyone to realize that this can take place anywhere," Shrum said. "That's why we walk through neighborhoods. That's why it's called Take Back the Night." The march ended back at the Rotunda, where any survivors who wished to share their experiences were offered the chance to speak. Over a dozen did so. Organizations that aided in the event included the Women's Center, the Inter-Sorority Council, the Coalition, the Shelter for Help in an Emergency, the Sexual Assault Resource Agency and One in Four. Organizers said Take Back the Night is an important and effective step, but stressed that society is a long way from the elimination of violence against women. "Somewhere in the United States a woman is battered every 15 seconds," Shrum said. "One in six women will be assaulted while in college. Most people don't even realize how pervasive the issue of violence is." (C) 2002 Cavalier Daily via U-WIRE