 Following the attempted sexual assault of a University student on 17th St.
 at 6:30 p.m. Saturday, University Police have not found any substantial leads, but believe the attacker may resemble the individual involved in the Oct. 15 rape underneath Beta Bridge. Charlottesville Police Officer B. N. O'Donnell is working on the case, but said he could not comment on the investigation. Charlottesville Police Sgt. Gary Pleasants said there was a striking similarity in the details of the two assaults. "There are some similarities in the incidents and it could be the same person," Pleasants said. "It's being handled by investigators." He said he could not comment on exact specifics between the cases, but that certain physical similarities exist in the suspect descriptions. The most recent victim described the attacker as a five-foot-six male with short sandy blond hair, wearing some camouflage. "Mainly it is just a similarity in description" with the attacker in the Beta Bridge incident, Pleasants said. "We don't have any specific suspects." Charlottesville Police Sgt. Don Campbell, who also is overseeing the investigation, could not be reached for comment. The victim was attacked on 17th St. early Saturday evening by a man walking with a bicycle and carrying a camera. The man first requested to take the victim's picture and she kept walking after letting him take a picture. When the man requested to take the victim's picture a second time--claiming he was a photographer for GQ magazine--the victim refused and he came at her physically and said he had a gun. The victim fended him off by kicking him. A passerby on 17th attempted to chase down the attacker but was unsuccessful. A group of students took the victim into a nearby house and called the police. Charlottesville Police said they responded to the call immediately and went to the scene with an ambulance. The victim received stitches for cuts on her mouth and had a swollen eye. She was released from University Hospital Saturday night. Pleasants said officers responded appropriately to the call. "We received a call and went directly up there," he said. "Before we got the call several passersby had chased him off." In response to increased concern generated by the recent attacks, as well as darkness coming earlier in the day because of the return to standard time, officials at Student Escort said they are operating earlier. "We're starting one hour earlier starting tonight," said University Police Lt. Wayne Knight, who helps operate the service. "We're doing this as a result of it getting dark earlier and an increased concern at the University." Student leaders at Student Escort said they were attempting to address student safety concerns by opening earlier. "It came up as something we needed to look into," said Tyler Jensen, Student Council escort committee co-chairman. "As a result of the recent attacks, we went ahead with the earlier hours." Jensen said he had addressed some recent concerns about whether the service included transportation to some Rugby Road areas, especially fraternity and sorority houses. He said it is Escort policy to service those areas, except when students are using the service to transport groups from one party to another. "We do go to sorority houses," he added. "There are pick-up and drop-off" areas on Rugby Road because of the difficulties of stopping and starting on the street. Escort stopping areas include Beta Bridge, the intersection of Rugby Road and Grady Avenue and the Architecture School parking lot. (C) 1999 Cavalier Daily via U-WIRE