 University Police said they are confident they will catch the offender who
 committed the male-on-male sexual assault in the Lawn area early Thursday morning. "I feel good that we will probably identify the suspect at some point," University Police Lt. Mike Abbott said. A male University student awoke around 3:45 a.m. Thursday as an unidentified male attempted to perform oral sex on him. Police described the suspect as about 5 feet, 11 inches tall, weighing about 175 pounds and having short, spiked blonde hair. Police officials said the assailant wore a beige sports coat and khaki pants at the time of the assault. Police have not named a suspect beyond this description. University Police said they hope a witness will come forward with evidence, Abbott said. "There were plenty of people out and about" at the time of the assault who could have noticed any suspicious behavior, he said. No witnesses have contacted the police. Police also plan to watch for anyone matching the suspect's description near the Lawn during early morning hours. Lawn residents said they are more mindful of taking safety precautions but do not feel directly threatened by the incident. "I am certainly more conscious of my behavior," Lawn resident Raj Doshi said. "However, I still feel the Lawn is a very safe place." Lawn resident Sam Riegel said the incident has made him more aware of his living habits, but that he will not adjust his behavior. The incident "makes me more aware of how often I leave my door open," Riegel said. "But I'm not changing what I do." Although police have not named a suspect, Lawn residents said they have made their own conjectures about assault details. "We speculate on what we guess happened," Lawn resident Mike Jeffreys said. "It's not just a random assault outside-it's so unusual." The Lawn area is one of the most heavily patrolled regions of Grounds, Abbott said. "That's a pretty high activity area, especially after midnight," he said. "It gets a lot of attention." Asst. Dean of Students Aaron Laushway said the incident reiterates the need to act with caution. The assault "just underscores the need for all of us to be careful about our security," Laushway said. (C) 1999 Cavalier Daily via U-WIRE