 A rumor that unfortunately seems closer to fact than fiction has purported
 a gang rape was committed against a first-year student last weekend. In the process, everyone suddenly is up in arms about students' lack of security, when, in fact, it never was there to begin with. The sweltering aura of invincibility has given students the false assurance this is a perfectly safe neighborhood. That is why many can be seen at night jogging alone, the University drowned out by a Walkman. This fast and free myth of college so spellbounds first-year students, in fact, they tend to forget reality. Their upperclass counterparts are no exception, though. Residence Life once offered safety courses to upperclass students living on Grounds but attendence dwindled to next to nothing. Sexual assault and rape are myths to most college students. They don't happen. If people were to unwittingly believe University crime statistics, they would understand that only six rapes have been reported during the last five years. Six. That is either an amazing anomaly or a sign of fear. Common sense will tell you that since the University does not furnish an open atmosphere in regard to sexual assault -- sex in general, really -- the latter is true. No one, of course, believes that statistic but, nevertheless, it exists -- an affirmation of cries gone unheard. Common sense, however, also dictates that if a problem threatens us, we solve it. That obviously is not the case because silence still tends to be the rule rather than the execption. It is not because of a lack of effort, though. The Dean of Students Office, Women's Center and Inter-Sorority Council, among others, provide programs to educate students, but the message never makes any headway among the masses. How many times has a friend told you about being sexually harassed, assaulted or raped at the University? Most of us are in utter shock this sort of behavior occurs but still accept the fact people do not report such incidents. Understandably, they say they are fearful, that they do not want to see their name splashed across the newspaper and that they do not know what resources are available to them at the Unversity. It is time for students to respond to these attacks. Now, more than ever, the University community needs a visible, proactive movement so that these incidents are reported, properly addressed and dealt with properly. The strange thing is that students, leaders and otherwise, speak so passionately about student self-governance but then typically leave the work in the hands of administrators and only a few dedicated students. Ask the scant students (mostly women) who work at the Sexual Assault Education Office and they will say it is emotionally draining to bear so many painful stories on too few shoulders. Students harp about how the administration should stay out of their affairs, that they want to proceed unimpeded with student problems, but mostly it is just a bunch of words strung together to sound pretentious. This isn't student self-governance; it's student self-importance. Students need to show more than the passive support they offer at present. Organize into groups or join the ones that exist: Just do something. Something to show that they care and feel the need to stop the butchering of human dignity that takes place too frequently. Men in particular need to show their ranks. Not because of guilt by gender association but because they have a better chance to mend the mentality of those guilty of rape and even the seemingly innocuous sexual joke. Women are less likely to break through the stubborn mentality that often accompanies men who violate women, whether with a word or with an act. None should hold their breath, though. It will take diligence, perserverance and patience if actual security is to come. Students claim they know how to govern themselves; now is a better time than any to prove that. (C) 1999 Cavalier Daily via U-WIRE