
 William N. Beebe, III, a former University of Virginia student, pleaded guilty to one charge of felonious sexual assault in Charlottesville District Court Tuesday. Tuesday's proceedings represent the culmination of a protracted ordeal that garnered national attention after University alumna Elizabeth Seccuro filed charges in January against Beebe for an incident in 1984. The incident between Seccuro and Beebe occurredwhen they had a sexual encounter at a Phi Kappa Psi fraternity party in 1984. The case was reopened last year after Beebe wrote to Seccuro and apologized for harming her. According to Deputy Commonwealth Attorney Claude V. Worrell, II, during the fraternity party, Seccuro imbibed a "lime-colored green punch," later believed to contain grain alcohol, which inhibited Seccuro's faculties. "She reported feeling out of sorts and unsteady," Worrell said. Afterward, Beebe took Seccuro to his room, which is where the sexual assault took place, Worrell said. "She was not in any condition to consent to sexual intercourse," Worrell said, but sexual intercourse did take place. After his April arraignment, Beebe was indicted on one charge of rape and one charge of object penetration; however, Beebe came to Charlottesville today to accept a lower charge in exchange for a guilty plea and continued cooperation with the police. Worrell said felonious sexual assault characterized the encounter between Seccuro and Beebe more accurately than the previous charges because the investigation was not complete at the time of the preliminary hearing. Beebe's defense attorney, Rhonda Quagliana, agreed. Felonious sexual assault "more closely approximates the facts of the case," Quagliana said, adding that factors like youth and alcohol should be considered in the charges. Beebe has also agreed to continue helping police as the investigation of the events of that evening proceeds. "We believe other sexual assaults may have occurred that might not [have been committed] by Mr. Beebe," Worrell said. According to the agreement, Beebe agreed to a maximum sentence of two years imprisonment with the possibility of a reduced sentence contingent on his cooperation with the police investigation. If Beebe is sentenced to more than two years, he has the right to a retrial. After the proceedings, Seccuro spoke outside the court house and said she was pleased with the outcome. "This has been a really long road for my family," Seccuro said. "I think it's an edifying moment." In light of her experience, Seccuro said she wants to reach out to other victims of sexual assault by opening a surf camp. Beebe delivered a prepared statement to the press. "Twenty-two years ago I crossed a line in the standards of conduct with Ms. Seccuro," Beebe said. "I regretted it immediately." In his speech, Beebe said he only wanted to bring closure to the situation. "My only purpose in contacting her was to bring peace to both our lives," Beebe said. "Twenty-two years ago I harmed another person, and I have tried to set that right." Beebe is scheduled to be sentenced March 15. He has been released on bond until that time. (C) 2006 Cavalier Daily via U-WIRE