 The General Council of Phi Delta Theta Fraternity suspended the University
 of Virginia chapter's charter May 2 for violating its risk management policies. The General Council is a five-member board that governs the national actions of the Phi Delta Theta Fraternity. According to Bob Biggs, Phi Delta Theta executive vice president, the action "officially closes" Phi Delta Theta on Grounds. The risk management policy is a set of guidelines governing actions and behavior of all chapters. The policy addresses abuse and hazing, alcohol, drugs, high risk events that expose members, guests or property to injury or damage, and transportation to and from events not held at the chapter house. Neither national or chapter representatives would confirm which section of the policy was violated. "We conducted our own investigation and found the chapter had violated many risk management policies," Biggs said. But the chapter has appealed the suspension on grounds that Phi Delta Theta nationals did not conduct a "proper and thorough" investigation. "The General Council did not follow the process in their statutes for proper investigation of a chapter," Chapter President Brendan Dignan said. "(They) used double and triple hearsay and never interviewed any of us or alumni" during their investigation. Dignan said the chapter has asked the General Council to reverse the suspension of the charter. If the General Council does not repeal the suspension, the chapter plans to present their appeal at the Phi Delta Theta National Convention June 22-25 in Arizona. According to Dignan, Phi Delta Theta bylaws stipulate that a vote by all chapters and representatives at the convention can overturn a decision by the General Council. The University Judiciary Committee and the Inter-Fraternity Council Judiciary Committee investigated the University's Phi Delt chapter in the fall for hazing allegations. In an early December trial the UJC revoked Phi Delta Theta's Fraternal Organization Agreement after finding them guilty of violating standards 1 and 9 of the Standards of Conduct, but the Judicial Review Board ruled the sanction was too harsh and instructed the UJC and Phi Delt to mediate a new sanction. Standard 1 prohibits physical and sexual assault and standard 9 prohibits violation of University policies or of University regulations as described in The Record, including regulations concerning the use of University facilities. Phi Delt was convicted by the UJC of violating standard 1 by depriving pledges of sleep. They were also convicted of violating terms of their FOA, a standard 9 violation. The FOA is a document that establishes a fraternity's relationship with the University and the IFC. Harry Marshall, president of the University's Phi Delta Theta Housing Corporation, said he and other alumni stand fully behind the current brothers and leadership in the house. "Myself and the Housing Corporation feel very strongly the members of the fraternity are honorable individuals and they should continue as part of the national fraternity," Marshall said. National Executive Vice President Biggs said that although he is aware of the request for an appeal, Phi Delta Theta national hopes to recolonize the chapter at a later date. "We hope someday Phi Delta Theta will be able to return to establish the Virginia Beta chapter," Biggs said. (C) 2000 Cavalier Daily via U-WIRE