 Following the arrest of Orange County resident Garnett James Lloyd for
 breaking into the Delta Zeta sorority house March 14, Charlottesville Police held a line-up yesterday to identify a possible suspect in related incidents. The police investigation of the break-in has expanded to examine possible connections to last fall's string of break-ins and sexual assaults that occurred in the Rugby Road and Chancellor Street vicinities. Police said they were examining connections Lloyd could have to the break-ins and assaults, but that it was too early for any allegations. "We're taking a hard look at it, but we're not saying he's a suspect in these cases," Charlottesville Police Lt. Chip Harding said. Police arrested Lloyd in the sorority house after being alerted by the Delta Zeta housemother that there was an intruder inside. Lloyd subsequently was charged on a felony count of breaking and entering with the intent to commit larceny and released on $ 10,000 bail. Police began to suspect that at least one person was targeting University females when Chancellor Street area sororities, including Delta Zeta, began reporting disturbances and break-ins in the fall. Concerns grew after one University student was raped beneath Beta Bridge Oct. 15 and another sexually assaulted Nov. 14 on 17th Street. According to Harding, the police department has been running line-ups for witnesses involved in break-ins occurring in the area within the past year. "We were showing line-ups to witnesses in relation to this break-in and various break-ins in the area," he said. He added police plan to release descriptions of Lloyd, his vehicle and past disturbances in the area after the department concludes the line-up process with all known witnesses. "We don't want to taint our evidence by releasing information too soon," Harding said. "Still, we might release his description later to see if it would joggle people's memories," he said. "Also, from a preventative standpoint, it wouldn't be a bad idea if residents knew what he looked like-he is out on bond." The March 14 disturbance marked the fourth time the Delta Zeta house was broken into in the past year. During previous break-ins, the perpetrator made 1-900 phone calls from the house and stole residents' undergarments and personal photographs. Three city detectives served a search warrant on Lloyd's residence last week looking for the sorority sisters' missing items, Harding said. "The detectives went in looking for them, but did not turn up the undergarments," he said. Though never convicted of a sex crime, Lloyd was convicted on charges of simple assault after groping two saleswomen in 1996. Delta Zeta President Allison Snodgrass declined to comment on the arrest but said all her housemates "were doing just fine." Breaking and entering with the intent to commit larceny is a Class 6 felony which is punishable by up to 20 years imprisonment and/or up to $ 2,500 fine. Lloyd could not be reached for comment. (C) 1999 Cavalier Daily via U-WIRE