 The University of Virginia was marred this year by high-profile criminal
 incidents that both occurred on and around Grounds. A string of sexual assaults began Oct. 15 when a University woman was raped while taking a shortcut beneath Beta Bridge. A second violent assault occurred a month later when a man claiming to be a GQ photographer grabbed a University woman Nov. 14 in the Chancellor Street area. The woman escaped, although she sustained serious facial injuries, and was able to help police develop a composite of the suspect. Additional fall reports of house break-ins and thefts of intimate property from sororities on Chancellor Street contributed to fears that a sexual predator had targeted University women. The March 14 arrest of Garnett James Lloyd for breaking and entering the Delta Zeta house offered area police their first firm suspect in the incidents occurring around Rugby Road. Lloyd was later detained without bond after police linked him to an Oct. 17 Delta Zeta house break-in. Four members of the University football team faced assault and battery and malicious wounding charges after allegedly attacking two fourth-year students Feb. 7 on Cabell Drive. Linebacker John Duckett and defensive back Devon Simmons, both second years, pleaded guilty to assault and battery charges and await sentencing May 26. Second-year running back Antwoine Womack, fourth-year former defensive back Adrian Burmin and a non-University student, Kevin Camatre, face an Aug. 11 jury trial for malicious wounding. Womack and Burmin pleaded not guilty to the felony charges. While Charlottesville Police investigated Rugby Road area assaults, University Police dealt with a similar incident April 15 when a male Lawn resident reported waking up to find an unknown male attempting to perform oral sex on him. Racial tensions swelled in April after Alexander Stepney and Devone Jennings, both University students taking a year off, were arrested outside littlejohn's for obstruction of justice and trespassing. Claiming to have been arrested at the request of a littlejohn's security official that allegedly made racist comments about a nearby group of black females, the suspects have pleaded not guilty to their charges. Even the University itself became entangled in litigation this year as attorneys for the guardians of switched-at-birth babies Callie Marie Conley and Rebecca Chittum wrestled with the Commonwealth for malpractice claims. In accordance with Virginia malpractice cap laws, the Commonwealth offered each baby's guardians $ 2 million medical malpractice settlements. The grandparents of Rebecca Chittum accepted the offer Feb. 21 while Paula Johnson, Conley's legal parent, wrangled for a higher settlement. (C) 1999 Cavalier Daily via U-WIRE