
 Groups around Grounds and throughout the state are working this month to bring heightened attention to the issue of domestic violence in recognition of Domestic Violence Awareness Month. The National Coalition Against Domestic Violence dedicated the month of October to the issue in 1987. At the University, the Gender Violence and Social Change program at the Women's Center is partnering with Sigma Psi Zeta sorority and the Sexual Violence Prevention Coalition to recognize the cause. "Three years ago, we learned that Sigma Psi Zeta's philanthropy was [raising money to combat] domestic violence," GVSC Director Claire Kaplan said. "They were planning a couple of events, so we contacted the leadership and jointly sponsored events together. ... That was the beginning of a great collaboration. We're delighted to work with the Sigmas on such an important series of events." The Women's Center is also partnering with the Red Flag Campaign, a "public awareness campaign designated to address dating violence and promote the prevention of dating violence on college campuses," according to the group's website. Bystander intervention is the primary focus of the campaign, which asks communities to look for "red flags" of dating violence in the relationships around them. The University recently launched its own bystander intervention initiative entitled "Hoos Got Your Back," which aims to educate members of the community about the importance of bystander intervention in combating sexual violence. "Students are the heart of the Center," Kaplan said. "Ending sexual and relationship violence will take the whole community, both on and off Grounds." The University has participated in the Red Flag Campaign since it began largely due to the combined efforts of University faculty, staff, students and advocates associated with the Virginia Sexual and Domestic Violence Action Alliance. At the end of the month, the Women's Center will sponsor Red Flag Week, which will feature several events and resources surrounding the issue of domestic violence. Prior to and during Red Flag Week, students can sign the #hoosgotyourback pledge or plant a red flag in exchange for a sticker of the initiative's logo. In a press release last week, Attorney General Mark Herring recognized October as Domestic Violence Awareness month. He highlighted several services available to victims of domestic violence in the Commonwealth as well as ways to spread awareness. "The first step in addressing domestic violence is acknowledging, as a society, that it is a problem and accepting the responsibility of addressing it," Herring said in the release. "Domestic violence can leave a lasting impact that affects families for generations, but by intervening early to connect victims and vulnerable people with the resources they need, we can help break the cycle of violence and prevent re-victimization." In an effort to raise awareness, Herring visited Safe Harbor, a Richmond area shelter and resource center for victims of domestic and sexual violence, to speak with the staff and to thank them for their work. He also dropped off 47 medication lockboxes, one for each domestic violence shelter in the commonwealth, with the Virginia Sexual and Domestic Violence Action Alliance.