 It's one of the many joys of living in a small town -- word travels fast.
 Years ago, most news likely was passed by word-of-mouth. Now, it's only a click away. But while few can argue that the media -- both print and electronic -- have made for a more informed public, it sometimes oversteps its bounds and provides more harmful gossip than valuable information. Charlottesville, the quintessential small town, is no exception. Last Tuesday C-VILLE, a local weekly newspaper, published a list of 49 convicted violent sex offenders living in the Charlottesville area. The list came from the Virginia State Police's searchable database of residents who have been convicted of a sex offense. The Virginia State Police created the Web site as a means of enforcing Megan's Law, a statute named after 7-year-old Megan Kanka, who was raped and murdered by her neighbor, a twice-convicted sex offender. It requires that all states create a registry of convicted sex offenders that can be accessed by the public. Its purpose is to keep citizens informed about who is living in their community. Virginia is one of only 10 states to provide such information online. Previously, Virginia residents could request the list by mail, for a fee of $ 15. Before that, only schools, day-care centers and youth groups had access to the information. Now, anyone with access to the Internet can type in the Web address (www.vsp.state.va.us) and search by zip code, county or city. C-VILLE printed the list accompanied by an article about the Web site, and the debate surrounding its establishment. In it, the American Civil Liberties Union (ACLU), among others, criticized the law and accompanying Web site. But no one provided a more convincing argument against publicizing the information than the C-VILLE article itself. Apparently, the list available in both the article and the Web site has numerous errors, according to an article in this week's issue of the paper. Two of the addresses identified as the residences of sex offenders -- one on Amherst Street and one on Greentree Park -- are incorrect. At least two more errors have been discovered in the state listing, one in Fauquier County and one in Reston. Obviously, the list's contents are not entirely reliable. And, as a result, two Charlottesville residents may incorrectly be labeled sex offenders. It is appalling that, in dealing with such a sensitive and controversial topic, the C-VILLE staff was not more careful about fact-checking, or even providing all the appropriate information. The Web site, at least, warns that information may be outdated, since it is the responsibility of the offender to notify the police department of any change of address. The article held no such disclaimer. One can only hope that as many people read the news story inside the paper on the errors as read the flashy cover story sensationally entitled "Who are the people in your neighborhood?" and the list ominously labeled "The Charlottesville 49." But the registry's dependability is not all we should question. The ACLU is right in asserting that the principle behind it, that a community has a right to know who lives in the area, is unfair and violates a fundamental right to privacy. All 49 of the offenders on the list are ex-convicts who have served time for their crimes. The date of last conviction ranges from last year to 25 years ago, in 1974. It seems slightly presumptuous to assume that someone who committed a crime more than 20 years ago, and has stayed out of trouble since, poses a serious threat to the community. Furthermore, the need for publication of the list casts suspicion on Virginia's own justice system. The purpose of a prison sentence is to keep dangerous criminals off the streets, and to rehabilitate them in the process, so that when they are released, they no longer are dangerous. If Virginia's "rehabilitated" sex offenders are so threatening that their names must be made public, one wonders about the quality of the system. After all, a successful prison system would release criminals only when it was sure they would not strike again. In the case of the C-VILLE, the editors seemed more concerned with proclaiming their own virtue for printing the list than ensuring that it was correct. In the original story, an editor's note defended the decision, asserting it is "entirely appropriate to use this information to make an informed choice about where to live." At least they're right about one thing. Perhaps Virginia residents should think twice about living in a state that has so little faith in its own criminal justice system and expects its residents to shoulder the responsibility of their own protection. (C) 1999 Cavalier Daily via U-WIRE