
 Even as some American cities' saw forecasts turn into reality as their crime rates increased last year, the crime rate in the City of Charlottesville and at the University of Virginia decreased overall by 12 percent. City of Charlottesville spokesperson Ric Barrick said violent crime in the city was down 18 percent in 2007, while property crime was down 11 percent. Of all violent crimes committed in Charlottesville, Barrick said instances of rape saw the most substantial decrease, with a 33-percent drop last year. Another sizeable decrease was in reports of aggravated assault, down 30 percent. Barrick added that his office is pleased with the results for two reasons: In 2006, unlike last year, Charlottesville's crime statistics rose, and the national statistical trend forecasted a further rise in crime for 2007. These improved and encouraging statistics, Barrick said, can be attributed to more officers patrolling Charlottesville, better police and communications technology and "a department-wide community policing policy" that encourages "officers to be a part of a community and to communicate with those communities." One thing the Charlottesville Police Department added recently, according to Barrick, was a region-wide "gang awareness prevention" program. "We're getting in the community and educating the public about gang activity," Barrick said, noting that this education is essential to lowering the number of crimes committed in Charlottesville. The city, however, was not the only community to see crime levels fall in 2007. University Police Lieut. Melissa Fielding also said there was less crime on Grounds than in the previous year. Like Barrick, Fielding attributed the lower crime rate to an increase in law enforcement patrol. "Students will notice over the last couple of years an increased University police presence near Rugby," Fielding said. Fielding added that the University Police Department constantly analyzes overall crime statistics and reports for both the University and city to better gauge where and when police should be deployed. Looking ahead, both Barrick and Fielding said their respective offices plan to formulate new ways of combating crime in the community. Fielding said University Police will continue to look at statistics and reporting trends and keep a well-trained police department, while Barrick emphasized the community's "responsibility to be responsible." At the University, Fielding said this responsibility -- especially in the case of property crimes -- extends to the student body. She said students must make an effort to minimize theft opportunities if crime levels are to continue declining. Compared to escalating crime nationwide, Barrick said, "We're happy to be going against the national statistic trend." (C) 2008 Cavalier Daily via U-WIRE