 SHE CALLS him "treadmill hottie." Every Monday, Wednesday and Friday at
 3:30, my apartment-mate does the Stairmaster at the Aquatic and Fitness Center, while he runs on the treadmill. They've never spoken, but one day, she thinks, she'll smile and say, "It looks like we're on the same wavelength." But in fact, she and her hottie aren't the only students at the University who make a workout part of their weekly routine. At the University, exercise is as popular a pastime as partying on Rugby--and brimming with just as much peer pressure. Much like the body-obsessed American culture, the University culture tends to place great emphasis on physical fitness and appearance. And while routine exercise is necessary for good health, it is important that we make the distinction between healthy and unhealthy workouts, and emphasize the role of mental health in students' well being. Last Tuesday night, UVA Cares, the University's task force on eating disorders, presented a play by Act Out-a Philadelphia-based acting company- entitled "Body Loathing, Body Love." The original script, written by a young woman with a history of eating disorders, examined the signs and symptoms of these illnesses and their causes, and debunked a number of common myths. One such myth is that eating disorders are found mostly in adolescent girls. But the American Anorexia and Bulimia Association estimates that 5 to 20 percent of college women suffer from an eating disorder, which often results from both low self-esteem and an overwhelming amount of external stresses. The disorder often provides the victim with a way to control a part of her life when she feels she has no control over other areas. Disorders are more common in college women, the George Mason University Counseling and Student Development Center reports, because--besides facing a great deal of academic and social stress--college women traditionally have "abnormally low self-esteem." Furthermore, eating disorders often are a means of coping with other traumas, most notably sexual assault, which tends to prevail on college campuses. Among college women, bulimia is the more common disorder. While most people identify a bulimic as someone who binges and then purges by vomiting, many bulimics purge through compulsive exercise. University students, in particular, should be aware of the symptoms of compulsive exercise. Certainly, regular workouts are mandatory for staying healthy. But if you feel guilty or depressed when you miss a workout, place exercise ahead of work, social life or family, or modify your exercise habits based on your weight or your eating habits, you may be exercising too much. The American College of Sports Medicine maintains the average individual, i.e. a non-athlete, should exercise three to five days a week, for 15 to 60 minutes at a moderate intensity. Anything more could constitute compulsive behavior. Fortunately, when it comes to treatment for eating disorders, the University is well equipped. Student Health Counseling and Psychological Services, the Ainsworth Clinic and the Women's Center, are just a few of the on-Grounds resources available to students with eating disorders. Among them, a student can receive assessments, referrals, individual and group therapy and workshops to help them combat the problem. What the University could consider, however, is more programming--along the lines of "Body Loathing, Body Love"--designed to prevent eating disorders by changing the body-obsessed culture that prevails on Grounds. At the University of Rochester in New York last year, health officials launched a month-long effort to raise awareness about health and self-esteem entitled "Feel Fabulous in February." Among the month's activities were a 5K run, a series of lectures and workshops about eating disorders and physical fitness, free screenings for eating disorders and $ 5 cholesterol screenings. In an effort to highlight body image problems, one day was designated the "Day Without Mirrors," and mirrors all over campus were covered with inspirational fliers imploring students and professors: "True beauty ... find it for yourself." In a culture where we are exposed daily to photographs of fashion models who weigh 23 percent less than the average woman and store mannequins who, if human, would be too thin to menstruate, that kind of effort is tremendously refreshing. And there should be much more of it. The University should expand its health programming to include efforts such as these, which promote, above all else, a healthy self-image among students. Students should also realize the power they themselves possess to help their peers maintain a positive self-confidence. Examine your own self-image and how others contribute to it. Then try to assess the ways in which you can contribute to the self-esteem of your peers. Look out for friends who show symptoms of eating disorders and try to determine what might be causing them. Remind them that beauty is internal, and try not to roll your eyes when you say it. They just might believe you. And you just might believe yourself. (C) 1999 Cavalier Daily via U-WIRE