 Inter-Sorority Council officials said better awareness and several new
 changes allowed numbers, efficiency and excitement for rushees to improve over last year's process. ISC Rush Chairwoman Liz Gagliardi said the number of women registered to rush this year were much higher than last year's total of 722. Gagliardi said she made a conscious decision not to annouce this year's total because of past problems with the press. Additionally, actual pledge numbers have risen as well. Despite losing one house, Alpha Omicron Pi, to recolonization, 486 women accepted bids this year, ISC Public Relations Chairwoman Amy Morton said. Last year, 450 women accepted bids. "We think at the end of the continuous open bid process, that number will reach 500," Morton said. The open bid process allows rushees to accept bids up to a couple weeks after they are given. "Ninety-five percent of the women who went through the entire process got a bid, and of those women, 95 percent got their first choice," Morton said. In response to neighbors' complaints, ISC voted earlier this year to eliminate the dancing and yelling outside sorority houses that typically accompanied the rush process. With the new change, "second-year rushees found the process more dignified and less intimidating than last year," Gagliardi said. ISC members also noted that with less yelling they were able to pacify fed-up neighbors, save their voices and keep fatigue to a minimum. But some said the change had a negative effect on the rush process. There "was an excitement that was lost over past years. The yelling was two minutes or so for us to be silly and have fun, and now we can't do that," ISC Community Relations Chairwoman Lynn Demong said. ISC officials said the increase in interest is attributable to an upgraded effort to improve awareness about rush before the process began. Sorority members donned rush pins and shirts, and sorority members went to dormitories before rush registration to answer women's questions. Gagliardi said ISC plans to continue such practices next year. The sorority houses also tried to make the rush process itself more user-friendly. Most rounds of rush were on weekends so rushees would not have as many academic conflicts. Additionally, rush remained at four rounds after last year's drop from five rounds. Officials also made improvements in the post-rush pledging process, during which fraternity and sorority pledges are required to participate in peer education classes. ISC Educator Sara Pappas said the classes address issues of concern "not just related to those in the greek system but for everyone," including drinking, date rape and drugs. In conjunction with Inter-Fraternity Council Educator Eric Giesler, Pappas arranged for the classes to be mixed according to gender: one sorority together with two randomly selected fraternities. Educators used to conduct the classes at each house with no inner-mixing. Pappas said she hopes the change will encourage debate among fraternity pledges who have been reticent in the past. (C) 1999 Cavalier Daily via U-WIRE