 Students at James Madison University have expressed resentment at the JMU
 Board of Visitors' decision to discontinue the availability of the emergency contraception drug from JMU's student health center. The JMU Student Government Association is working toward putting the issue of Emergency Contraception on the agenda for the Student Senate. "On Monday we began passing a petition trying to get enough signatures for a Bill of Opinion," Student Government Association President Levar Stoney said. The Bill of Opinion is a bill that prioritizes an issue for the student senate. "When we have a huge issue on campus, we use the bill to express that," Stoney said. "It's just a first step in making sure the BOV hears us loud and clear." According to Stoney, the SGA is now writing letters to the Board to rally more support and also are planning a march to Board Member Mark Obenshain's law office. "We are also sending a letter to Delegate [Bob] Marshall," he said. "We can't believe a Delegate from Manasses is writing to Harrisonburg about an issue." Many JMU students believe that the BOV was exercising too much power when they decided to prevent students from being able to purchase emergency contraceptive on campus, Stoney said. "The BOV crossed the line and micromanaged student services which I believe is out of their realm," he said. JMU's health center does not carry all drugs and this would just be another drug that cannot be purchased on campus, said student Board representative Andrew Dudik. "It's not eliminating the rights of doctors to prescribe the contraception," he said. Stoney disagreed. "It's unfortunate that the BOV forgot to include student opinion on this issue," Stoney said. There is some debate over the motive of the BOV in suggesting the contraception's removal from the campus pharmacy. "Since the letter from Bob Marshall, it appeared to be political," said Ann Simmons, coordinator for health promotion at JMU. Dudik refuted claims that the Board acted politically. "I can understand why they have concerns. Unfortunately, I think a lot of their concerns are unfounded," he said. "They thought the Board was taking a political stand, but I haven't known the Board to do that at all -- we don't want JMU to be in the business to hand out something so controversial." The student health center encouraged students to voice their opposition to the prohibition of the drugs in the campus pharmacy. "I'm very pleased that the students have found their voice around an issue that is important to them and have decided to take a stand and have done so in such a prompt and deliberate manner," said Marsha Mays-Bernard, director of the JMU student health center. "We've certainly been supportive of the students, and supporting them in their stance at this point is probably the most significant thing we can do." Emergency contraceptives may not require a prescription in the future. "The company that is making the pill is petitioning for it to be over the counter," said JMU Director of University Communications Fred Hilton. Students want to affirm the Board is working for their benefit and not political purposes, according to student leaders. "I feel that one of the Board members who is running for office is putting it on his platform," Freshman class president Wesli Spencer said. "It's a career move and is not for the betterment of the student body." Some students said they feel politics should not affect the University. "I am tired of people playing politics with higher education," Stoney said. Other students said they are more focused on the usefulness of the emergency contraceptive. "I just think that stuff should be available to students, especially in cases of rape and drunkenness," JMU freshman Lauren LaMesa said. (C) 2002 Cavalier Daily via U-WIRE