 A male University student reported he was sexually assaulted by an
 unidentified white male around 3:45 a.m. yesterday at a residence in the Lawn area. The victim "woke up to find someone attempting to perform oral sex on him," University Police Capt. Michael Coleman said. The suspect is about 5-feet, 11-inches tall, weighs about 175 pounds and has short, spiked blonde hair. He was wearing a beige sports coat and khaki pants at the time of the assault. Coleman declined to give an exact location of the assault in order to protect the victim's privacy. "If [an assault] occurs somewhere in the middle of nowhere it's not a problem [to reveal the location] because it can't be linked to the victim's identity," Coleman said. "We don't want to narrow the focus down to where the person involved can be identified." Police are continuing to investigate the assault but have not yet named any suspects. It is unlikely that this assault is related to last semester's earlier assaults, Coleman said. "Stranger things have happened, but given the circumstances [this assault] doesn't appear to be similar to the things that happened earlier," he said. Two other sexual assaults occurred last semester when a female University student was raped under Beta Bridge Oct. 15. Another female University student was the victim of a sexual assault on 17th Street Nov. 14. Dean of Students Robert T. Canevari said the assault should remind students to be mindful of their safety. "We just have to continue to remind people to secure their own safety and look out for each other," Canevari said. Jay Shaylor, Lawn resident and former University Sexual Assault Board chairman, said students should keep in mind that the University is not isolated from the surrounding city. "The University is a community of trust, but it's important to remember that we live in the greater Charlottesville community," Shaylor said. Canevari said he hopes the attacker is caught soon. "It's scary that there is someone like this out there," he said. "I hope somehow that we are able to find this person and hold him accountable." Residence Life staff members will be notified of the incident and reminded to tell residents to take safety precautions, Residence Life Co-Chairwoman Sarah Curtis-Fawley said. "We definitely do everything we can to encourage and remind the staff [to take precautions], especially when incidents like this happen," Curtis-Fawley said. Patrick Drury, president of the all-male sexual assault awareness group One in Four, said his organization hopes incidents like this will stop occurring. "Every one of us would like not to have this kind of thing happen anymore," Drury said. Head Lawn resident Lauren Franks could not be reached for comment. Former Honor Committee Chairman Cabell Vest, a Lawn resident, said he plans on "being a lot more aware and taking notice of people who are hanging around the Lawn." (C) 1999 Cavalier Daily via U-WIRE