 There are some dumb laws out there.
 In Vermont, whistling underwater is illegal. In Arizona, it is illegal for donkeys to sleep in bathtubs. For some reason, Pennsylvania has not one but three dumb laws about fishing: You may not catch a fish with your hands; you may not catch a fish by any body part except the mouth; and dynamite is not to be used to catch fish. Though it's not quite up there with the dynamite-fishing law, the Department of Education has been enforcing a pretty dumb law for the last two years. The law denies college financial aid to students with drug convictions. To date, the department has denied 21,000 people financial aid because of it, and that number doesn't include countless others who didn't even apply because they feared rejection. This law is unsound for many reasons. The first indicator that it's a bad law is that it's not even doing what its author -- Rep. Mark Edward Souder (R-Ind.) -- wanted it to do. Souder's spokesman told The Washington Post that, "This is absolutely, 100 percent not what Congressman Souder intended" ("College financial aid rule attacked," Nov. 10). Souder wanted students to be cut off from financial aid only if they were convicted of drug charges while they were already receiving aid. However, the Department of Education has insisted that the law covers anyone with a drug conviction, and Souder's attempts to clarify the wording through legislation have not succeeded. Under its original intent, the law was reasonable -- the government shouldn't fund someone's education if they're going to piddle the opportunity away by doing drugs. However, the government should not continue to punish students for mistakes they made -- and paid for -- in the past. If people who have been convicted of committing drug crimes have served their time, paid their fine or otherwise fulfilled their debt to society, they should be able to get on with their lives unhindered by their previous mistakes. As well as being devoid of any small measure of fairness, the present interpretation of Souder's law lacks sense from a policy standpoint. Much of our penal system is based on the principle of rehabilitation. In theory, the criminal justice system is supposed to rehabilitate people who commit crimes so that when they are through serving their time, they will be good citizens and not commit more offenses. This law, however, works against the idea of rehabilitation by striking at offenders' best opportunity to improve themselves: education. Furthermore, because people who have drug convictions are disproportionately from socioeconomically disadvantaged classes, the surest way to keep them there after they're done serving their time is to keep their only window of opportunity closed and locked tight. Education is the key to getting people out of bad situations, and without the help of governmental financial aid, the majority of them won't be able to do it. By barring them from the only way out, repeat offenses would ensue. If people who have made mistakes with drugs are taking the initiative to get themselves educated and don't commit another offense, more power to them. The government should be funding their self-improvement efforts, not hampering them. Drug use is the only crime that carries the penalty of being banned from financial aid, which is strange considering that, in the language of criminologists, drug use is a "victimless" crime. It is victimless in that the only people harmed by most drug offenses are the offenders themselves. It's unreasonable that those who commit victimless crimes are punished under this law, while no other crimes -- including those that do have victims -- carry this provision. People who have committed rape, murder, arson and treason can receive financial aid from the government, but people who have used drugs cannot. The Department of Education is enforcing a dumb law. The government should grant financial aid to people who have past drug convictions. Past mistakes are just that -- past mistakes. People with drug convictions should be able to move on with their lives after having paid their debt to society, and the government shouldn't prevent them from doing so. Congress should change the law so that Souder's original intention for it is brought to fruition. (C) 2001 Cavalier Daily via U-WIRE