 After two years of contentious debate, the University of Virginia's
 Judiciary Committee has voted down a proposed referendum to extend the statute of limitations -- the amount of time following an alleged crime during which a person can file a complaint -- from 45 to 180 days in cases of physical assault. The change would have required an amendment to the committee's constitution, a move that would have to be approved by a majority of UVA students in an election. The committee's judge pool voted 10-4, with one judge abstaining and six judges absent, not to send the proposal to the school's fall election for a student vote. Two-thirds of the judge pool must vote in favor of a proposal in order for it to become a referendum. Opponents of the proposal say they believe the potential for abuse of the system outweighs the benefits that extending the statute of limitations for physical assault could provide. "We can't see into the future -- we don't know how this will affect the system," Committee Chair Alexis Gregorian says. "I worry that we'd be setting up a messy scenario." Some judges envisioned a scenario where students get into a minor fight at a party and then months later one of the students becomes angry at the other and decides to file a complaint with the committee alleging physical assault that occurred long ago. "The retribution aspect is increased exponentially," Gregorian says. "To have it hanging over a student's head for that long, I just don't think it's right." Opponents also express concern that extending the time period would allow more opportunities for evidence loss, particularly with graduated students who no longer can testify in a trial. Proponents argue that physical assault cases are serious enough to warrant an extended statute of limitations, adding that physical assault can have emotional ramifications similar to sexual assault that could lead to a longer decision process in filing a complaint with the committee. The committee is required by Virginia state law to have a one-year statute of limitations for sexual assault victims, but its constitution limits case initiations to 45 days after an incident in all other cases. Advocates of the proposal referred to a specific case that inspired the creation of a subcommittee to examine the issue two years ago. A female UVA student coming out of a physically abusive relationship tried to file a complaint with the committee against her assailant, but was unsuccessful because the 45-day statute of limitations had passed. The assailant already had been found guilty in criminal proceedings, but the student said she still was disturbed by his presence in her classes. Had the case been brought to the UJC within the 45-day limit and the assailant found guilty, the committee would have had the authority to suspend or expel the assailant, a power the criminal system does not possess. "One case is a pretty serious abdication of our responsibility to the community -- it's more important to give standing to that one case of serious domestic abuse, where the girl had no other recourse, than it is to be concerned about letting some smaller ones in," says Jeff Tebbs, co-chair of the issues subcommittee that proposed the referendum. "Letting them in is not a breach of accused rights, it's just a matter of delaying a few smaller cases." Tebbs says the subcommittee may decide to pursue the extension further, either by introducing the referendum through a student petition, which would require the signatures of 5 percent of the student body, or by proposing an altered referendum to the judge pool in the future. In an informal poll after the vote, three of the judges who voted against the proposal said they might have voted for it had the time factor been different. Previously, the committee had debated extending the statute of limitations to 90 days or allowing a good cause exception. Along with the six absent judges, a change in their votes could alter the outcome of the committee's decision. (C) 2002 Cavalier Daily via U-WIRE