 Strolling down the Lawn on a beautiful fall afternoon, it was hard not to
 think it. My parents and I were chatting about the Convocation ceremony and some of the finer points of Thomas Jefferson's philosophy on education. My mom sighed. "You know," she said, "Thomas Jefferson is the perfect man." It was almost too ironic that the news broke less than 24 hours later. On Nov. 1, retired University Pathology Prof. Eugene A. Foster held a press conference at Monticello, where he revealed DNA evidence indicating a strong possibility that Thomas Jefferson was the father of the fourth child of Sally Hemings, a mulatto slave at Monticello. Foster's tests compared the DNA of male-line descendants of Jefferson's paternal uncle to DNA from male-line descendants of two of Hemings children, and discovered there is a 100 to one chance that Jefferson fathered Eston Hemings. The news seemed to shock the community outside Charlottesville more than the area within, given the fact that rumors about a Jefferson-Hemings affair have circulated around Monticello and the University for years, and many have already accepted it as fact. But this scientific evidence all but proves the speculation true, and an important question arises: How should we, as students at Jefferson's University, react to the news that our founder may have fathered a slave's child? Should we feel disillusioned and devastated that a hero has fallen? Should we vehemently deny the claims and defend our founder? Or should we resort to our usual state of apathy, and ignore the matter all together? None of the above. Instead, every member of the University community should seize the opportunity to reexamine our understanding of Thomas Jefferson--not only as a founder of our country and our University, but also as a man. Our examination is hindered by the fact that we know nothing beyond the pure scientific facts of a Jefferson-Hemings relationship. We don't know whether it was a case of master/slave rape or a love story that transcended racial and social boundaries. Most likely, we never will know for sure--though the fact that Hemings chose not to take advantage of the opportunity to leave Jefferson while serving as his daughter's maid in Paris points to a more consensual relationship. But even that point begs the all-too-familiar question: How can a relationship so unbalanced in terms of power possibly be consensual? Clearly, the knowledge that Jefferson had a sexual relationship with Hemings raises significant moral questions. But does that topple him from the white marble pedestal he sits on at the University? And should it? As many historians have been quick to point out, the relationship is not the first indication of contradiction between Jefferson's beliefs and his actions. He preached against the institution of slavery, but owned slaves himself. He wrote documents that demanded equality of all men, as well as articles that revealed his own racial prejudice. But these contradictions and the knowledge of his relationship with Hemings should not undermine the way in which we view our founder. They do not change the fact that he was one of the most advanced political thinkers of his time; that he was so powerful a writer that his words still affect the life we experience at his University every day. At the same time, though, instead of dismissing his personal actions as inconsequential, these complexities in character should inspire us to delve even deeper into the philosophies that we often so easily accept as gospel. This Thanksgiving, rather than blithely quoting Jefferson over dinner, we should engage our families and friends in a debate about what we have learned about Jefferson and how to reconcile it with his famous words and principles. Jefferson's Academical Village and the University's intellectual community will thrive on the examination of these complexities, rather than the passive dismissal of any assaults on his character. But this new insight into Jefferson also leaves us with one more important lesson. Immersed in an atmosphere that bears his mark in so many ways, we often find it hard to believe our University's founder was not perfect. In fact, he was a man and he had flaws. But he also had dreams and big ideas. No matter what his personal imperfections, Jefferson left a legacy of truth and honor that never ceases to inspire us. And if we take nothing else from that knowledge, we should realize that no matter what our own mistakes, we possess that same potential. (C) 1999 Cavalier Daily via U-WIRE