 The Golden Key International Honour Society has not looked so golden
 recently. An internal report, which will be published in the upcoming issue of The Chronicle of Higher Education, confirmed allegations of corruption, misallocation of resources and even sexual misconduct that led to the firing of the society's chairman last year. James W. Lewis, who founded Golden Key in 1977, accepted stock from a corporation in exchange for high-level education contacts and admitted ineligible students in order to boost revenue. He also made employees do his personal work, including writing his son's private high school application essays, and engaged in sexual relationships with interns and students despite warnings from Golden Key board members, according to the report. "If it's true, it is pretty upsetting that it is going on," University of Virginia Golden Key President Doug Myers said. "It's upsetting that is how the top end of it is being run, because it is not how we run the local chapters." The University is one of more than 300 schools worldwide with an active Golden Key chapter, making the honor society one of the world's largest. There are between 300 and 400 Golden Key members at the University. The report was compiled by Georgia State University President Carl Patton, chairman of the Golden Key board, who subsequently resigned from the board, leaving Golden Key to replace several leadership roles. Patton based the report on interviews with 17 employees and an investigation of Lewis himself. Though Lewis confessed to sexual acts with interns and to having ordered employees to write his son's essays, he dismissed the report and denied the numerous other accusations of misconduct cited. "It could give the local chapter a bad name," Myers said. "I hope it won't hurt what we are trying to do here in Charlottesville (Va.)." Myers explained the news comes at a bad time for the University Golden Key chapter, which currently is undergoing a period of revitalization. "The active membership has really died down, but myself and several other members are currently trying to reinvigorate it," said Myers, who was inducted into Golden Key in October and elected president in January. Golden Key offers admittance to the top 15 percent of upperclassmen at member universities. Students choosing to accept pay a $ 60 fee for lifetime admittance. Though meetings have been "irregular," with most members remaining inactive, recent efforts have gone to aid community service, according to Aaron Laushway, Golden Key faculty adviser and dean of students for fraternity and sorority life. "The U.Va. chapter of Golden Key recently made a donation to Habitat for Humanity to support the house built by the Venable Neighborhood Association and the Greek Council," University Golden Key Treasurer Jay Rosenberger said. "We have a great opportunity to support organizations that are composed of many Golden Key members. Over the next semester, we are planning to sponsor a blood drive and continue to support Habitat for Humanity with both financial and labor resources." Myers and Rosenberger stressed the actions of Golden Key executives are not representative of the many chapters worldwide. "Despite allegations of wrongdoing among the higher levels of Golden Key, the officers and members of the U.Va. chapter conduct themselves with dignity and honor," Rosenberger said. "Misconduct by the leaders of the organization is disappointing, but it does not in any way demean the integrity of our chapter." (C) 2002 Cavalier Daily via U-WIRE