
 Many students agree that Rugby Road is a great place to have fun and experience greek life. However, every year incoming first-year students are warned about the dangers of the stereotypical non-consensual hook-ups between first-year girls and older guys. However, according to third-year student Logan Dean, most University of Virginia students are old enough to make decisions that can ultimately lead to a "walk of shame." "I think that once someone's in college they have the responsibility to choose what they get involved in," Dean explains. "Most people at this age can make that decision. The only big problem is when someone gets involved [having sex on Rugby] and isn't responsible enough to make that choice, specifically first-year girls with older men." While it isn't always the case, first-year student Dionna Ali said a lot of the times a first-year girl might send the wrong message just by what she's wearing. "Guys are more likely to go up to a girl who is dressed more provocative," Ali said. "In general, I think that girls dress provocatively because they want attention. ... I don't think many first-year girls are actually looking for [sex]." When it comes to hook-ups, Engineering graduate student Mark Orsi said he imagines a guy would be more likely to approach a more scantily dressed girl. "But if a guy just wants to dance or something, it doesn't matter what the girl is wearing, he'll just approach the girl he finds most attractive," he said. The vast majority of students interviewed agree that alcohol is a big factor in the numerous "hook-ups" on Rugby. Dressing provocatively "has the potential to send the wrong signals, but even more so when alcohol is involved," Ali said. According to Leonard Carter, assistant director of Counseling and Psychological Services, alcohol can affect both parties' thinking. "When people are sober there is this thought like, 'Oh that might be a bad idea,' but then someone has a couple drinks and all of a sudden it becomes a good idea!" Carter said. According to second-year student Maddy Thom, another reason for the large number of hook-ups on Rugby is a lack of experience. "I definitely noticed when I came to college that the people who had been drinking for so many years are the people who are more in control than those who didn't drink in high school," she said. "You notice the girls and guys that didn't experiment with drinking and didn't go out in high school are the ones you hear about getting in trouble just because they aren't familiar with alcohol." According to Carter, there could be many other reasons someone would consent to sexual activity. "I think it's one of those complicated behaviors where if we analyzed why 10 people at random do it, we would come up with a lot of different explanations," he said. "It may be that people are not particularly adept at managing more close or intimate relationships. There are may be some sort of fear about that or mismanagement. ... Then, someone gets drunk and may feel the need to act on it compulsively." Carter also referred to a book by Barret Seaman titled "Binge." Seaman "spent several years at 12 different colleges and his theory is that people are feeling more and more disconnected from each other," Carter said. "There is the stress of high school and college, people are worried about their futures, and there's a big emphasis on academics. So binge drinking and things like this are all caused from feeling disconnected from others. The hook-up culture is somewhat of a reaction to this. It's all interconnected." The students interviewed, however, agreed that the issue of the first-year girl being the victim in a hook-up is entirely different. "Yes, everyone regrets some hook-ups but, I don't feel like I was ever taken advantage of," Thom said. Orsi has also only heard of instances of consensual sex on Rugby. "I've only heard of consensual hook-ups," he said. "Anything else isn't worth talking about because it's disrespectful and disgusting." According to Dean there probably are some cases of non-consensual sex, but he has also not heard of any such cases. "From what I see, a lot of it is consensual," he said. "I don't know if a lot of it looks consensual but isn't because of all the support groups for sexual assault, but from what I've seen it looks pretty mutual." However, Dean suggests that there are usually guys looking out for girls who have had a little too much to drink. "There are frat brothers, at least in my fraternity, that look out for girls just in case they look way too intoxicated to make a decision," he said. "We try to make sure that a girl, who is heavily under the influence, doesn't make a stupid decision. I know other frats do that as well." Dean said he also thinks that in order for a girl to prevent unwanted sexual encounters it is important to travel with a group of girls you trust. "Then, they can weigh the decision, and if it seems unsuitable, tell you," he said. According to Inter-Fraternity Council President Andy Paradis, another way to prevent unwanted sexual advances is to simply think beforehand. "I would say this to anyone: People who plan to attend any function should think of the consequences of any actions they may take while they are there, whether it's consuming alcohol or being with someone," he said. "I think any regrets will come from people who aren't thinking about their decisions and those who stray from their original plans." (C) 2006 Cavalier Daily via U-WIRE