
 The University of Virginia Student Council discussed three resolutions Tuesday night, including a proposal to create a new Certified Independent Organization to coordinate neighborhood watches in off-Grounds areas where many students live. College Rep. Ryan Taylor introduced a resolution to create the CIO which would work with other CIOs around Grounds, as well as local police, "to train and coordinate" neighborhood watches within the areas of Barracks-Rugby, Jefferson Park Avenue and Lewis Mountain. According to Taylor, other neighborhood watches are coordinated by a neighborhood block captain who goes from house to house asking people to participate, but this program will be run by a CIO that will have officers and permanent members who keep the program going, even after the original members have left. Taylor said because the program will be run through a CIO, it will have a better chance of lasting through time. Charlottesville, Va., Police Chief Tim Longo said a neighborhood watch was a good idea, but worried about the ability of students to sustain the watch through different cycles of residents. "Anytime you are able to pull a neighborhood together and make it into a community, be it within U.Va. or outside of it, it is a good thing," Longo said. According to Long, one difficulty that arises with regard to these watches is volunteers' ability to "sustain the momentum at the same level [in areas] where people are constantly matriculating in and out." He explained that while one group of students may be excited and motivated about such a project, it is often difficult to sustain the same level of excitement and motivation when new groups move into an area, replacing people who previously took part in the watch. Taylor said the inspiration for the resolution came from the recent sexual assaults on 15th Street and Wertland Street. "We wanted a more tangible response other then more blue phones and SafeRide," Taylor said. "We wanted to do something that was most cost effective and provided the maximum deterrence." If the resolution passes, the resulting CIO will coordinate university CIOs and Charlottesville police to recruit and train volunteers to form the watches. According to Taylor, the watches will provide houses where there will "always be a light on outside, always be somewhere safe students know they can go and always have an extra pair of eyes on the road." Taylor said he hoped the program will deter criminals and provide better identification of those who choose to commit crimes. Longo said the police department will be available to provide support for any program created. Resolutions recommending that ITC add premium channels such as HBO to student cable services and that Dining Services suspend the use of trays at the Observatory Hill dining hall during the 2007-2008 school were also discussed. Student Council President Darius Nabors proposed the ITC resolution and remarked that channels available to students living off Grounds should be available to students living on Grounds. James Jokl, ITC communications and systems director, said ITC was willing to look into the matter, provided a substantial amount of student interest is shown. Nabors also proposed a resolution to recommend the removal of trays from Observatory Hill Dining Hall for the 2007-2008 school year in an effort to phase out the use of trays in dining halls. Nabors said the removal of trays will help conserve water and reduce the amount of wasted food dining halls produce. "It is a minimal cost to create a better environmental consciousness," Nabors said. Nabors said the proposed resolutions will be voted on at future meetings. (C) 2007 Cavalier Daily via U-WIRE