 Forget the stereotypical image of the dumb, blond beauty queen and instead
 imagine a highly intelligent, enthusiastic and strikingly beautiful Korean woman. Meet Michelle Kang, Miss Virginia 1996. Kang is currently a graduate student at the University's Curry School of Education and will be graduating this May with an educational policy degree. Kang has tried to keep her presence at the University low key, so that she can be a student and not an icon. "People tend not to take me seriously because they want to only look at the outside," Kang said. But now, Miss Virginia 1996 is coming out into the open for an incredible cause. Asst. Dean of Students John Foubert called Kang and asked her to emcee a benefit concert for the sexual assault peer education group, One in Four. Foubert met Kang last semester and knew of her strong interests. Michelle "had mentioned her work concerning the abuse of women and children," Foubert said, "She is a strong supporter of the work I am doing and the work of One in Four." The benefit concert, which will be held Monday at 8:30 p.m. in McLeod Auditorium, will feature the musical groups AVP, ChoosE, Black Voices, the Sil'hooettes and the Whethermen. Kang said her interest in the benefit stems from her reign as Miss Virginia, when she championed a few different issues that she still actively supports today. Her specific areas of concern are the prevention of child abuse, women's issues and literacy. Kang said April is a month dedicated to the prevention of child abuse. She wears a blue ribbon pin every day of the month following the well-known story of a grandmother who started wearing blue ribbons to symbolize the blue bruises she observed on her grandchild's arms. This practice is now national. Kang's dedication to these causes is the reason she agreed to emcee the benefit concert. Kang emphasized that safety is one of her biggest women's concerns. "It is so important not to take safety for granted," she said. "Statistics show that one in four college women have been sexually assaulted." Kang said she believes these statistics speak for themselves and are part of the reason the work One in Four does is so important. "I am so proud that men are doing this," Kang said. Kang said she is looking forward to Monday's concert, which will focus on prevention and not past tragedy. "It's gong to be an upbeat, fun event," she said. Kang is used to addressing groups as large as 2,000 people. During her term as Miss Virginia, Kang gave over 300 speeches and traveled over 1,000 miles a week to all areas of the commonwealth. Her title required her to act as a spokesperson, advocate and role model. In fact, Kang said these roles were the very reason she decided to enter the pageant in the first place. "I did it because I saw it as a unique opportunity," she said. Unlike many contestants, Kang had never been in a pageant before and entered with a specific purpose in mind. "After interning for a juvenile court judge for two summers and serving as a CASA [Court Appointed Special Advocate] for an abused child, I wanted to find a way to draw more attention to the needs of children," she said. Kang said she even testified before the Virginia Senate Committee as a public advocate for the well being of children and families. She said she did legislative work in order to remind people that citizens have the power to influence government. "Up until me, everyone viewed Miss Virginia as a beauty queen and nothing more," Kang said. "I pushed for people to take me seriously, as a business person." Kang also holds the distinguished position in history as Virginia's first minority pageant winner. Kang grew up in Fredricksburg as the daughter of Koran immigrants. She also notes that she was one of only a small number of Asians in her high school. "My sister and I made up the Asian population in our school," she said. As the first minority Miss Virginia, Kang said she encountered some racism. She said during parades some people would boo her. Through all of it, she added that she retained her positive outlook and did not let others' ignorance affect her and her job. "You can't change them, just try and educate them," Kang said. Through her work for children and the abused, as well as her role as a minority leader, Kang recognizes what an opportunity she got out of being Miss Virginia. "Miss Virginia is only a job title," she said. "It is not all about the crown, glitz and glamour. It is about making a difference in people's lives." (C) 1999 Cavalier Daily via U-WIRE