
 The student member of the Board of Visitors is only as useful as students make him. Students ought to understand both the back-ground and the goals of Carey Mignerey, the recently-selected incoming member of the BOV, in order that they might better communicate their concerns to the individual chosen to represent them. Prior to his appointment as the student member of the University's Board of Visitors, Mignerey exemplified the sort of successful, ambitious student one might expect to take on such an important position as the one he'll assume in April. As part of his promise to remain involved with the University community, Mignerey recently sat down with the Managing Board of The Cavalier Daily to discuss his plans for the future. When he begins his term in April, he plans to focus much of his attention on four "areas of emphasis." First, Mignerey said, the BOV must help the University grow in size and scope "without losing the benefits we have as a smaller institution." Second, he stressed that the dialogue on diversity should continue, of course, "with an eye towards tolerance." But diversity for Mignerey means more than fulfilling the hollow promises of tired talking points. "Students should know that there are schools particularly that often are forgotten and student groups... that often go unheard. These are the groups that would get my first priority." As an undergraduate, Mignerey was an active participant in several forms of student self-governance as chair of the Honor Committee and a member of Sigma Chi fraternity. Upon graduating in 2004, Mignerey worked for the consulting firm McKinsey & Co. for two years before returning to the University to attend law school. Each year, a committee comprised of the heads of certain student organizations and administrators select a single student who "serves as a soundboard for the Board of Visitors with regard to issues that affect students at the University," to use Mignerey's words. This position bridges the gap between the student body and the University's corporate governing board with the intent of lending a voice to student concerns. Mignerey calls the position "one of the best jobs a student can have." Never discarding his background in business, his third area of emphasis concerned ensuring the University's ability to finance its endeavors. Mignerey's fourth and final point -- arguably his most crucial responsibility -- deals with devising new ways to make the University safer for students. "When I was an undergraduate," Mignerey recalled, "student safety just wasn't a concern. There didn't seem to be a problem." Bearing in mind the recent instances of sexual assault and vandalism, he reiterated the need to rethink how the University approaches safety. Ultimately, students must view the student member of the BOV as a "conduit" for their questions and concerns. Of all his plans, what emerged most clearly from our conversation was Mignerey's commitment to maintaining an open-door policy with students. "Students should be more than willing to come to me and express their views." Well-intentioned though he may be, Mignerey's ability to address student concerns depends entirely on students' will to engage in fruitful conversation with the representative chosen to serve them. (C) 2007 Cavalier Daily via U-WIRE