 Weeklong protests at the Virginia Military Institute ended Wednesday after
 several meetings between cadet leaders and the institution's superintendent. The conflict arose when senior cadets responsible for running the Ratline, a disciplinary system for new cadets, refused to fulfill their basic training duties in protest of the dismissals of two upperclassmen. The Ratline was reinstated Wednesday night. The situation was "resolved and there have been no more protests," said Donna Weaver, VMI's assistant director of public relations. VMI had dismissed two cadets and suspended another Sept. 13 for disciplinary reasons after one freshman cadet claimed he had been singled out for harassment on the Ratline by the upperclassmen. The Ratline is a long-standing tradition at VMI, which gives seniors the responsibility of training and disciplining freshmen cadets. Freshmen on the Ratline are required to walk in straight lines, cut sharp corners, tuck chins in and put arms at their sides. They march and drill frequently and answer impromptu questions on the institute's history and regulations. During the protests this freshmen training system was suspended for nearly a week. This halted many of the activities at the entire institute. "VMI's Ratline is an essential part of our educational philosophy and properly administered becomes a cherished part of the experiences of every VMI cadet," said VMI Superintendent Major General Josiah Bunting III in a statement released Wednesday. "When cadets who are responsible for administering this system, however, step over the carefully prescribed lines of conduct that are established for them, our reaction is swift and in some cases, severe." Several VMI alumni have voiced their support for the superintendent's decision in the matter. Richard Trumbo, VMI alumnus and Alexander resident said he believes the protests are not special to VMI, but part of the give and take between faculty and students at all colleges and universities. "Disputes between teachers and students go on in schools; VMI is no different," Trumbo said. "The Ratline is an integral part of the VMI experience." Other alumni also have stood by the institution throughout this dispute. "I support the opinion of the superintendent," said M. Edgar Hollowell, VMI alumnus and Waynesboro, Va. resident. According to Weaver, suspension of the Ratline is not unusual, but this year's protest lasted longer than usual -- almost a week. VMI has thoroughly reviewed all of the disciplinary action taken within the past week. After review, officials decided tostand by their original decision. (C) 2001 Cavalier Daily via U-WIRE