 According to University Police crime statistics released yesterday, the
 University saw a dramatic 30 percent drop in crime last year. Reported incidents of crime fell from 529 in 1997 to 370 in 1998, according to the release. Police officials said rape, aggravated assault, burglary, larceny and motor theft all saw fewer occurrences during the last year. "We have had a general decrease in crime over the years, but this year it is much larger," University Police Capt. Michael Coleman said. "We're very happy about it." While pleased with the decrease in reported crimes, University Chief of Police Michael Sheffield warned that the statistics only represented incidents that were reported and occurred on University property. Sheffield said last year's high profile rape and sexual assaults helped raise public awareness among University students. "When you have a violent crime, people tend to change their habits," he said. "Those things make people aware that things can happen right in your back yard." Police officials said the difficulty arises in maintaining community interest in crime prevention. "There's a difficulty in building a continuum of interests," Coleman said. "After a big incident everyone is interested in helping, but that drops off with time." While the exact causes of the crime decrease can not be pinpointed, police said the recent growth in special community programs probably played a role. "We believe here that community actions affect criminal activity a great deal," Coleman said. "Student Watch and the Escort Service certainly played a role in our efforts." Sheffield agreed that interest in the University community has helped decrease recent crime rates. "People are aware and taking advantage of the services available," he said. Student Escort ridership, for example, has increased from 14,348 rides in 1997 to 36,845 in 1998. Despite the drop in crime, Sheffield reminded the University community to remain vigilant. "Although 30 percent is a major decrease, we worry that the community may become lax leading to a future increase in the crime rate," Sheffield said in the press release. "We urge the community to stay involved--they're the ones that see things around and the ones that need to let the police know about any incidents that may occur," Coleman said. But while University-related crime statistics decreased last year, Albemarle County Police officials reported a 4 percent increase in crime within the county. According to the Albemarle Police report, the majority of the increase stemmed from theft and destruction of property. Crimes against persons, such as homicide, robbery and assault, all decreased within the county. (C) 1999 Cavalier Daily via U-WIRE