
 Marshall Bronfin |The Cavalier Daily "[The goal is that] everybody ultimately has a fun but safe Halloween" Speetjens said. One Less and the Alcohol and Drug Abuse Prevention Team have teamed up to promote bystander intervention and practicing safety this Halloween weekend. In a program they are calling "Reverse Trick or Treating," ADAPT, a peer education group, and One Less, a student organization which works to combat sexual violence on Grounds, have been handing out candy along with tips on how to have a safe night in exchange for signing a pledge to be an active bystander this Halloween. "[The aim is] to practice safe drinking, not not drinking," said ADAPT member Kristen Smith, a third-year Education student. The pledge asks students to commit to help out other students in need, or in a tricky situation where alcohol may be involved. The goal of the reverse trick or treating pledge is to promote safe habits, not to discourage students from going out, said Smith and fellow ADAPT member Sydney Speetjens, a third-year Commerce student. "[The goal is that] everybody ultimately has a fun but safe Halloween," Speetjens said. Fourth-year College student Ashley Brown, the president of One Less, said group members are excited to work with ADAPT to promote bystander intervention. Alcohol is closely related to issues of sexual assault on Grounds, she said. "Drinking is a large factor in what creates this culture at U.Va.," Brown said. "Be safe and be aware of your surroundings." All week, the CIOs will be handing out cups of free candy, each labeled with a superhero-themed safety tip such as, "Don't hide your secret identity, carry your ID." Light-up toy wands will also be distributed to the first 500 people who sign the pledge. As part of a regimen of safe drinking, ADAPT recommends alternating drinks with food and water, understanding the symptoms of alcohol poisoning and utilizing a buddy system. These are general tips that everyone already knows, Gordie Center for Substance Abuse Prevention Director Susan Bruce said. She emphasized the importance of reminders, though - even to cross the street safely when wearing a costume and remembering that people are often not recognizable when in costume. "[We are] reminding students of safety tips they already know - it's Halloween, so it's even more important," Bruce said. "Students are in a costume, it's a different feeling, and they don't remember the safety messages in their heads." ADAPT also aims to remind students about the logistics of getting help if needed. Calling an ambulance in Charlottesville is always free of charge. While such information is constantly relevant, ADAPT members said they aim to especially stress safety information at times of the year known for heavy drinking - including Halloween, Spring Break and Foxfield. One Less and ADAPT will be tabling in front of the Elson Student Health Center, Observatory Hill Dining Hall and on the Lawn throughout the week.