
 Third-year Commerce student Faith Lyons was initiated into Phi Delta Theta fraternity in an expedited ceremony Monday night following her election as Honor Chair for the 2015-16 term. Affording Honor chairs the privilege to join Phi Delta Theta's sacred brotherhood is recognized as one of the Honor Committee's most cherished traditions. "Welcome - and you're welcome," outgoing Honor Chair Nick Hine told Lyons after a brief chapter meeting, which included a brief convening of all 27 undergraduate scholarship selection committees, a candle-passing service to honor the fraternity's founding matriarch - Pat Lampkin, vice president of student affairs - and some Seven Society stuff just to be efficient. Former Board of Visitors student representative Meg Gould, a brother of Phi Delta Theta, said that Lyons would be a perfect fit for the fraternity. "She's white," Gould said. "And Honor chair." Lyons will be presented to the community as an official brother this Friday at the Honor Roundtable, an annual event co-hosted by Phi Delta Theta fraternity, the Majority Rights Coalition and that one guy in your Spanish class who gives a shit. "I'm so excited," Lyons said. "I've quit all my other extracurriculars to focus on Honor - and by virtue of Honor, Phi Delt. I will almost definitely be really committed-ish to those two things. That's what being a student leader is all about." Since Phi Delt was founded at the University of Virginia in 1873, the fraternity and the Honor Committee have found they can connect over that fact that their members just won't stop being accepted into all-male sexual assault education group One in Four. "Honor is a lived experience," Hine said, repeating a line he heard former Phi Delt Honor Chair Evan Behrle repeat from former Phi Delt Honor Chair Stephen Nash. "That isn't what you asked, is it?" A source close to Lyons said that she is currently under significant pressure from the fraternity to quit the Commerce School and declare a major in Political and Social Thought - an interdisciplinary major which would give her more face time with first-year students, whose gossip about how the Honor chair is "really hot, even if it's just a power thing" is the preeminent way Honor maintains its continued relevance on Grounds. When pushed on Lyons' qualifications for Honor chair, Hine said Honor is a "lived experience. Did I already say that?" At press time, Beta Theta Pi said the group was "pretty bummed they got her" and "doesn't know why this keeps happening."