
 The parent of a University of Virginia student created a Web site Sunday titled uvavictimsofrape.com in response to what she said she considers an inadequate response from U. Virginia administration after her daughter was allegedly sexually assaulted. The 50-year-old mother, speaking on the condition of anonymity, said she created the Web site to address what she said was the University "turning a blind eye" to sexual assault. "My goal is for the students to finally raise the point to the administration that sexual assault should be an honor code violation and that the only acceptable sanction would be dismissal from the University," she said. The parent said her daughter contacted the appropriate authorities at the University through several phone calls and e-mails but received responses that questioned her desire to file charges. "She has verbally spoken with the correct office and has sent e-mails, yet they have continued to come back and ask her if she wants to do this," she said. "Why do they question her motivation?" The parent further criticized the "University's lack of action against predators." "He sexually assaulted her, and there should never be any doubt in their mind whether or not they should investigate this," she said. The parent said she posted 300 fliers to advertise the Web site around Grounds Friday evening, but said many of them had been taken down the next day. University spokesperson Carol Wood said the accusations made against the University's handling of sexual assault cases are unfounded given the large support system the University has in place for sexual assault victims. "The University takes allegations of sexual assault very seriously, and we strive to work with students to keep them safe and secure," Wood said. "In the case of sexual assault, we work hard to make sure victims receive the appropriate assistance and guidance that they need to help them during some very difficult times." Wood added that the University is committed to assisting students with all legal matters associated with sexual assault cases. "It is the University's belief that we have to come to the aid of victims of sexual assault and assure them that we will work very closely with law enforcement agencies to prosecute their assailants to the fullest extent of the law," she said. Sexual Assault Board Chair Shamim Sisson said victims of sexual assault have many options available to them, both within the University's jurisdiction and beyond. First, a student may seek mediation services in which a formal written agreement is made between the complainant and the accused person. The second option is to attend a "structured meeting," which Sisson described as an opportunity for the complainant to confront the accused in a less formal setting than a full hearing. Finally, the most formal option is to consult the Sexual Assault Board for a formal hearing by a panel of faculty and students. Citing the University's zero toleration for cheating as evidenced by the single-sanction provision of the honor code, the parent said sexual predators should be "immediately removed from Grounds so that students' emotional and physical well-being are not ever in jeopardy." Sisson said, however, that expulsion from the University is not the only sanction that can be levied by the hearing panel. Sanctions range in severity and include a warning, academic ramifications, suspension and expulsion. The parent emphasized that the administration needs to address the prevalence of sexual assault at the University. "My point is not to force them to take action on this predator alone," she said. "My point is that this occurs often at the University and it needs to be dealt with. I just feel it's time now they open their eyes to everyone in that situation, not just mine." (C) 2003 Cavalier Daily via U-WIRE