
 Will Brumas |The Cavalier Daily The University has commenced an internal evaluation of University President Teresa Sullivan to determine whether to extend her current contract. Sullivan's contract is set to expire July 31, 2016. Board of Visitors Rector George Keith Martin said that while the consideration of Sullivan's contract is now in a formal evaluation stage, this is only part of a more general, constant reassessment of her tenure. "Consistent with good board governance, the evaluation of the University president is a continuous, ongoing process," Martin said in an email. "We are currently in the midst of the formal evaluation period." Sullivan, who took office in 2010 as the University's eighth president, said the work and projects she has spearheaded are part of an ongoing process, and she would like to continue working with the University community on important University opportunities. "I look forward to continuing to work with the Board of Visitors, students, faculty, staff, parents, alumni and supporters on the many important opportunities ahead for this great institution," Sullivan said in an email. "My goal as president has been and will continue to be working to ensure that the University of Virginia remains one of the nation's finest institutions of higher education, and striving not only to maintain but to enhance its excellence in teaching, research, patient care and public service." Student referendums on Sullivan's tenure have been by and large a mixed bag. Second-year College student Jackson Nell said he believes Sullivan has done her best in response to each of the challenges the University community has faced - from devoting top University resources to the search for second-year College student Hannah Graham to supporting the student body through the Rolling Stone crisis. "I think she catalyzed a much deserved conversation about the University's culture and the need to actively combat domestic and sexual violence," Nell said. "I believe that her efforts to be actively present in our community through her emails and her working groups have fostered greater University attention to issues of domestic and sexual violence as well as issues regarding U.Va.'s often troubling past regarding gender, socioeconomic and racial equality." While the University community has faced its fair share of traumatic and unsettling challenges over the last five years, Nell said he wouldn't expect Sullivan to face any significant challenges in extending her contract. "I think she has brought a ton of energy, increased transparency and greater administration-student dialogue to Grounds throughout her time here," he said. "I hope that she is able to continue her efforts to make U.Va. the premier public university in this nation." Other students, however, feel Sullivan has not done an adequate job serving the University. First-year College student Aethena Brooks said she does not believe Sullivan should return to the University after her contract ends. "I think in light of recent events, the way she's handled the things that have happened... I just don't think she's handled them well," Brooks said. "I don't feel that she's a student advocate who supports the community." Second-year College Student Zachary Ackerman said the way the University continues to handle the sexual assault allegations made in the Rolling Stone article will shape his opinion on the effectiveness of the administration. "Being here for two years hasn't given me the strongest opinion either way," Ackerman said. "I feel that as students we don't often see what the president does until moments like [the release of the Rolling Stones article]. I think someone should look into what happened regarding the article and the claims made in them." Martin said he hopes to conclude the evaluation process no later than June 30, 2015.