
 The Honor and University Judicial Committees introduced themselves to incoming first years during summer orientation. The groups co-hosted a session at summer orientation entitled "Joining the U.Va. Community" to explain the different roles these organizations play in undergraduate life. UJC Chair Raleigh Anne Blank said that this year the UJC emphasized involvement within the University of Virginia community and the need for each student to maximize all four years of attendance. While the Honor Committee deals specifically with instances of cheating, lying and stealing, the UJC hears cases involving 12 specific standards of conduct. The UJC also uses a multi-sanction system for students found guilty of an offense. The only penalty for being found guilty of an Honor offense is expulsion. The 12 standards of conduct are: physical or sexual assault, threatening behavior, unauthorized entry, disrupting University activities, blocking traffic, violating University policies, altering University documents, disorderly conduct, property damage, obstructing UJC procedures and failing to comply with University officials. New students are also required to attend one of twelve dorm presentations sponsored by UJC, Honor, Student Council and Mediation Services during fall orientation. Watson dorm senior resident Janet Partlow said first years seemed confused about the differences between student government groups before attending the programs. "I think that's a good chance for them to learn some more basic stuff about what their role is in the honor system and what happens if UJC needs to be involved in something," Partlow said "I think their goal is just to make sure students understand [the differences between the groups]." Honor co-sponsored a "Diversity and Tradition" picnic with the Minority Rights Coalition and University Dining Monday night. Observatory Hill and Runk dining halls were shut down and Honor Committee Chair Alison Tramba said she estimated 1,800 students attended. "We're really trying to give students a strong understanding of the system," Tramba said. "We just want first years to feel they can take ownership of the system." (C) 2006 Cavalier Daily via U-WIRE