 Seriously ill patients seek their doctor for medical help, treatment and
 advice. However, these same patients, when confronted with the harsh reality of their grave situation, often may lean on their doctor for spiritual guidance as well. So what does a doctor say to an ailing individual who asks, "Why did God do this to me?" What advice can the doctor give then? In an emotional Medical Center Hour--a weekly conference concerning social and cultural health issues--yesterday afternoon, University Drs. Margaret E. Mohrmann and Deborah E. Smith recounted some sensitive, challenging, non-textbook questions that patients often present. They also explained ways people--both sufferers and healers--can cope with such stresses. More than 130 people attended the presentation, entitled "Suffering's Witness--The Problem of Evil in Medical Practice," held in the Jordan Hall Conference Center Auditorium. Mohrmann, an associate professor of pediatrics and a member of the University's Program of Humanities in Medicine, explained how patients' suffering has the power to revolutionize a patient's spiritual belief system. Smith, also an associate professor of pediatrics, gave examples of young patients she has seen, crippled emotionally and physically, whose parents and relatives have asked her outright, "How can God do this to my child?" She cited the case of four-year-old Crystal, who had a cancerous eye removed. But that was the least of this little girl's problems. Crystal's mother asked Smith to find out if there was any medical evidence proving Crystal had been sexually abused. When Smith evaluated Crystal, she noticed no signs of sexual abuse, which relieved the worried mother. However, also in her inspection, Smith discovered that the girl had no vaginal opening--a rare and devastating anatomical anomaly that is very difficult to explain, Smith told the captivated crowd. Smith said she informed Crystal's mother of the abnormality, who then asked her the difficult question of God's purpose of such a fate. Mohrmann, author of the 1995 book Medicine in Ministry, said that, in general, people usually hold two common beliefs about God: that God does active, purposeful things in our lives, and that God is good and loving. Thus, often patients ask doctors how an illness can "make sense" and "how God can let this happen," she said. She added that when a negative twist of fate does arrive, most people "accommodate the reality of evil" and simply reorder their thinking about God--and sometimes even about their infirmity--so that they can deal with the emotional and spiritual pain. Some patients ponder the problem of what they have done to deserve the illness, or even view it as a time for "personal growth," Mohrmann said. Regardless, both women stressed that doctors cannot shy away from "why me?" questions. "Even when we have no [advice] to give, we can respond in human ways," like listening, which lessens the patients' anxiety, fear or anger, Mohrmann said. They said addressing tragedy square in the face is best +for the doctor too, who deals with complex patient issues daily. "I tell stories, share [experiences] and teach [students] to reduce the burden of such emotions," Smith said. "If I didn't attend to emotions rapidly, they would come back and bite me later," Mohrmann said. Medical Prof. Julia Connelly, who moderated yesterday's session, also emphasized the need for doctors to be attentive to patients' emotions, not just the science of their conditions. "It's important for doctors not to compartmentalize or stick only to science," Connelly said. "Use the heart and the head." Mohrmann said that giving people emotional support is a characteristic of all humans, even "those whose organizing matrix is science." (C) 1999 Cavalier Daily via U-WIRE