 With a grant from the National Institute of Justice in Washington,
 researchers at the University of Virginia Health System are looking to improve scientific techniques used to identify offenders in sexual assault cases. Richard Rau, NIJ senior program manager for forensic sciences, said the project aims to decrease the enormous backlog of forensic evidence sitting in crime laboratories. Cell biologists, with the aid of $ 300,000 in funding, are looking at ways to pull male sperm cells away from cells of the sexual assault victim. The DNA can then be extracted from the male sperm and used to identify possible suspects. "By separating and then amplifying DNA cells, we are able to more efficiently determine identities" of sex offenders, said Margaretta Allietta, a lab specialist working on the project. Researchers at the University are working with the Virginia Division of Forensic Science in Richmond to allow for the smooth transition of the technology from research to crime lab. Researchers said they hope to have a prototype ready for testing by the end of the year. The use of robotics allows the process to move more quickly. "The current system used for DNA testing is a long and tedious process that is no longer adequate," Allietta said. "Through automation, crime labs will be able to efficiently analyze hundreds of samples of swabs taken from rape victims." Researchers spent the past year planning the project. Congressional funding recently was given to the NIJ, the research and development portion of the U.S. Department of Justice, Rau said. The grant to the University and the potential breakthrough in the field of DNA testing have been eagerly anticipated by many, from those in the legislature to those working in crime labs, he said. The principal investigator for the project is John Herr, director of the Center for Research in Reproductive Health at the University. Herr is away on business and could not be reached for comment. (C) 2001 Cavalier Daily via U-WIRE