 Monday, a federal judge issued an injunction to Shippensburg University in
 Pennsylvania, ordering it not to enforce its student conduct policies with regard to sections that restricted students' free speech. These sections, dubbed by many as "speech codes," are usually meant to prevent harassment and to foster an unthreatening educational environment. However, these codes usually find themselves in conflict with First Amendment ideals, and this has made the issue of "speech codes" a hot one on campuses across the country. Here at the University, we enjoy a harassment policy that is much more narrowly tailored to ensure free speech than most schools. The section in the University's undergraduate record that could be considered a "speech code" is found in the Discriminatory Harassment policy. But while it specifically targets actual conduct and not speech in general, the University's policy gives some examples of potential "harassment" that are much too broad, and should be taken out so that the true nature of the code is not misunderstood. Some of the examples given in the harassment policy border on absurd. These instances include "directing racial or ethnic slurs at someone," and "telling persons they are too old to understand new technology" -- the first two in a list of nine examples. Many have attacked the entire harassment policy as being too broad based on the examples given, and not on the actual code itself. These examples are not meant to demonstrate what, in all circumstances, could be considered harassment; on the contrary, the policy states that these are merely "examples of behavior that could be reported for review under this policy." In doing so, the policy is overly broad in that it does not make light of any sort of harassment. While "ridiculing a person's religious beliefs" might seem tame if it came in the form of an offhand joke, repeated and malicious mocking of someone's religion, after continued requests that this behavior stop, could be considered harassment. However, the problem with including these overly broad examples is that it betrays just how narrowly the discriminatory harassment policy is drawn. The University's policy is geared specifically toward conduct and not speech -- while "oral" conduct can be punishable, it is only so in cases where it "creates a working or learning environment that a reasonable person would find threatening or intimidating." This isn't exactly the threat to free speech that some other "speech codes" at colleges and universities may pose. Indeed, in comparing the University's Discriminatory Harassment Policy with similar codes around the country, it's easy to see just how carefully this policy is crafted. For instance, at Shippensburg (now prohibited from enforcing this speech code), the rights of students are tiered. On the top tier is the right to be free of "harassment" and "intimidation," for example. On a lower tier is the right to "express a personal belief system." However, this comes with the caveat that "the expression of one's beliefs should be communicated in a manner that does not provoke, harass, demean, intimidate, or harm another." The stark differences between Shippensburg's speech code and the University's harassment policy are clear when looking at the extent to which these could be taken. If an overzealous administrator at Shippensburg were so inclined, he or she could have a field day censoring all speech which could be considered "provoking" or "demeaning" to another student. On the other hand, the University's policy, geared toward conduct, would present administrators with much more difficulty in censoring student speech. Overall, the harassment code of the University is necessary to ensure an educational community where students won't be harassed. But while the policy itself is narrowly drawn enough to distinguish between off-the-cuff remarks and actual threatening harassment, the examples given are so broad that they miscommunicate the actions for which students can be punished, and unwittingly makes the policy seem much less free speech-friendly than it really is. (C) 2002 Cavalier Daily via U-WIRE