
 Chanting "one-in-four, one-in-four, we won't take it anymore," hundreds of demonstrators marched from the downtown amphitheatre to the Rotunda in the 16th annual Take Back the Night, an event to raise community awareness about sexual assault and domestic violence. "Sexual assault and domestic violence remain a stigmatized and silenced problem," said Larissa Kravamja, president of All Women Attaining Knowledge and Enrichment, a co-sponsor of the event. "Our goal is to break that silence." The event commenced Thursday with a rally downtown that included speakers and performances. "Our goal for this event is twofold," said Lauren Russo, external vice-president of the University chapter of the National Organization for Women, another co-sponsor of the event. "Our first goal is to raise awareness about violence against women, children and families. We also want to provide a space for people to come together and demonstrate their support of survivors of sexual assault and domestic violence in a safe and supportive environment." One in Four, an all-male group that champions community awareness of sexual and domestic violence against women, promoted its white ribbon campaign, giving ribbons to men who pledged to never commit violence against women. "We want to make sure that men know that they can make a difference," said Sachin Gupta, publicity chair of One in Four. After the rally, the participants marched to the North side of the Rotunda. "The march is our way of taking back the streets," Kracamja said. The night ended with a candlelight vigil during which survivors of sexual assault and domestic violence were encouraged to speak. This year is the first year that both NOW and AWAKE have co-sponsored the event. Also this year, Take Back the Night was expanded to include the entire week. One of the more visible events was inspired by the week's slogan, "Stars against silence, voices against violence." NOW and AWAKE had people stop by their table on the Lawn and decorate stars to show their support. Take Back the Night began as an international rally, march and vigil organized in local communities to unify women, men and children in an awareness of sexual and domestic violence, Kravamja said. It is an event that resonates in many communities, third-year College student Jen Silvers said. "Take Back the Night really addresses something that is too often kept hidden," Silvers said. "It is amazing to see the magnitude of people that turned out to participate in this event." (C) 2003 Cavalier Daily via U-WIRE