 AT 2 A.M. on the morning of Oct. 12, 1492, Christopher Columbus' tiny
 fleet of explorers sighted the shores of present-day San Salvador. Five centuries later (and at almost the same time of day), University of Wyoming student Matthew Shepard died of injuries sustained during a brutal attack. Matthew Shepard was young, only 21 years old, with hopes as bright as those of Europe's most daring explorers. But unlike Columbus, Shepard never got to push the boundaries of his own personal frontiers. On October 7, he was tied to a fence, pistol-whipped, and left to die in near-freezing temperatures. Police investigators allege that Shepard's killers singled him out because of his open homosexuality. In other words, the incident was hate-motivated. This tragedy comes on the heels of both House and Senate Judiciary hearings on the proposed Hate Crimes Prevention Act of 1998. If passed, the bill would extend federal jurisdiction to certain violent acts characterized as "hate-crimes." Currently, the prosecution of bigotry-related violence is handled by the states, only 21 of which have the relevant laws in place. With Congress still wrangling over next year's spending plan, the hate crime proposal is not likely to emerge in Congress for some time. Nevertheless, the wide press coverage of Shepard's death breathes new life into the debate over hate crimes, and the effect doubtless will be felt on Capitol Hill. But Legislators who attempt to tackle the issue of federalizing hate crime must necessarily ride a thin ethical line. While Americans should not tolerate crimes motivated by hate, neither should they allow the prosecution of hate crimes to deteriorate into the prosecution of hate itself. As it stands, the proposed Hate Crimes Prevention measure would make a federal crime of violent acts motivated by race, gender, disability or sexual bias on the part of the perpetrator. Offenders could face up to 10 years imprisonment or a life sentence if the crime involves kidnapping, sexual abuse or murder. As envisioned, the federal government would be granted the authority to prosecute cases occuring in states that either do not have hate crime laws, or fail to adequately enforce them. But in most cases, states already characterize the aforementioned felonies as capital crimes, resulting in the death penalty in certain instances. What other punitive purpose could a federal case hope to serve? At most, the federalization of hate crime might go further in expressing society's outrage at the crime itself. And while this outrage is appropriate, you shouldn't need a federal prosecution to make it valid. Whether or not Shepard's murder was motivated by hate, the very fact that he was brutally killed ought to be enough to warrant some kind of censure. And states already have such censures in place--in the form of felony statutes. What federal prosecutions will really put on trial, therefore, are the convictions that lead a given defendant to commit a hate crime. And as odious as bigotry is, it's not a felony. Courts are commissioned to make decisions based on the facts at hand, and portion their punishments according to the severity of the acts committed. Federal prosecution should not be based on an intangible emotion like hate, as this destabilizes the logic upon which our judicial system rests. If bigotry does indeed motivate a perpetrator, it should be emphasized during normal trial proceedings. But a defendant should not have to be tried for hate in addition to the physical crime he or she committed. Doing so would amount to little more than passing judgment on personal morality. Though the hate behind crimes like Shepard's murder distresses many Americans, the court systems should not have the authority to punish offenders because of this hate. Violence against one's fellow citizens, especially when the action is based on prejudice, is atrocious and should not be sanctioned by American society. But in order for our justice system to remain impartial, act and intent must not be separated during the trial process. Unfortunately, this is exactly what might happen if the Hate Crimes Prevention Act passes. Instead of revamping the judicial process to include a federalization of hate crime, legislators must work on equalizing the existing system. Violence is violence, whether or not it is committed with bigoted intentions. (Kiki Petrosino is a second-year College student. Her column appears Fridays in the Cavalier Daily.) (C) 1999 Cavalier Daily via U-WIRE