 Americans have dirty minds. Why are we so curious about the details of a
 sexual affair or rape accusation? Everyone seems to be intrigued by the most graphic details in the Kobe Bryant rape case. For instance, it is quite disturbing that CNN repeatedly reports that the girl had lacerations in the vaginal area and blood on her panties. I thought we hit the limit when it was reported that our former President Slick Billy decided to use a cigar as a sexual device on his intern Ms. Lewinsky. No one in their right mind enjoyed that mental image, so why do we keep asking for more? The Bryant rape case is a serious accusation -- Kobe Bryant is not charged with rape against America, so we do not need to be informed of the most intimate sexual details of this supposed encounter. Both the victim's and Bryant's reputations are marred by this whole experience, despite the outcome of the verdict. The details of this case should not be open to the public. A jury will fairly adjudicate the trial -- there is no need for the typical American to make this decision. Colorado has a rape shield law which keeps the victim's name and privacy secure. The privacy of a rape victim should be protected, but the standard of "innocent until proven guilty" is violated. Even if Kobe is acquitted, his reputation is forever marred. Everyone will always hold their own mental image of what allegedly happened behind closed doors. Although Kobe deserves disdain from the American public if he is guilty, the details of this case unfairly implicate Kobe in an accused violent rape. If Kobe has some mental strength, his basketball game should not suffer from this trial; but for endorsements and advertisements, his career is damaged. Adidas is not going to want an accused rapist as their spokesperson -- Kobe makes R. Kelly look like a saint in light of the recent trial and subsequent graphic evidence. Besides Kobe's already stained image, "sexually penetrated her, hurting her to the point that she bled" and "injuries to the woman's vaginal area" should not be socially accepted language in the media. In no way is the media at fault -- Americans' curiosity fuels the media's sensationalism of people's sexual lives. Somehow we moved from incessant grilling of the public lives of the rich and famous to the now all-inclusive bedroom behavior of celebrities. Regulations in the media industry are ineffective, despite Republican and the pseudo-Democrat Joseph Lieberman's attempts to restrict violence and sex on television. The American interest is the cause, and the only solution to this problem is for everyone to stop caring. Kids watching CNN or reading The Washington Post should not be subjected to reports of a teenager's panties. Our curiosity is leading to a youth population knowledgeable on matters of the former president's sexual relations and now, the graphic details of a rape accusation. I am not supporting any type of restrictions on the First Amendment's freedom of speech, but I am appalled at the recent coverage of the Kobe case. There are decency standards, and thus far, reporting on the case has been in bad taste. Self-restraint is a necessity in order to encourage the media to refrain from such graphic details. Perusing The Washington Post should not be a trip through Playboy's erotic story section. We are only in the preliminary hearing stages -- I can only imagine how graphic the case will become when the likely trial will grow to O.J. status. For all you inquiring Americans, soon you will probably hear the sexual histories of both Kobe and the alleged victim, more discussion on these mysterious panties and Kobe's anatomy and lots of gossip from the students of Eagle Creek. Using the publicity of this case, the media could instead inform the public of the legal system or rape awareness. I have a difficult time understanding why so many people continue to question the sex lives of those in the spotlight. Censorship is not the answer to stopping the media's intense coverage of celebrities. Instead, the population needs to express its repulsion at the excessive nature of the media to report sexual details. Both the girl and Kobe cannot enjoy hearing accounts of that night, so instead of ruining their reputations, we should let the jury decide who is to blame. Defy the American trend, and stop caring about whose blood is in someone's panties. (C) 2002 Cavalier Daily via U-WIRE