 As a result of new evidence, 25-year-old Michael Bryan Plum of
 Charlottesville was indicted Monday for two different sexual assaults in Charlottesville, that occurred over two years apart. Plum was indicted in Charlottesville Circuit Court on four felony counts in connection to the October 1998 rape of a female University of Virginia student that occurred beneath Beta Bridge. He also was indicted on six other felony counts related to a sexual assault in Tonsler Park that occurred this February. DNA evidence, examined by the Virginia Division of Forensic Science in Richmond, suggests the same man was indeed involved in both incidents. Detectives noticed striking similarities between the two assaults when they questioned Plum about the Tonsler Park sexual assault The "method of attack was the same," Charlottesville Police Detective Blaine Cosgro said. In both incidents, the assailant approached the female walking from behind in a "blitz style of attack." Cosgro said that in both instances the assailant threatened the victim and made similar verbal statements. The manner in which both assaults were carried out resembled one another in many ways too, Cosgro said. Because of these similarities, Cosgro and other detectives questioning Plum sent his DNA profile to the Virginia Division of Forensic Science. There, Plum's DNA matched the DNA recovered in the 1998 assault. Cosgro said that compiling evidence to make the connection between the two occurrences was "definitely a team effort." Charlottesville Patrol Officer Ernie Johnston arrested Plum for the Tonsler Park assault. "The arrest [for the Beta Bridge rape] would not have been made if the first arrest had not been made," Cosgro said. He also said the Virginia Division of Forensic Science was "very instrumental" in the effort. The sexual assault nurse examiners proved a "highly trained super bunch of nurses who do a great job" and were key in collecting important evidence, he said. If convicted, Plum could face an extended jail sentence. For the Tonsler Park assault, Plum was indicted on six felony counts: two counts of forcible sodomy and one count each of abduction with intent to defile, penetration with an inanimate object, robbery, and malicious wounding. If convicted for this assault, Plum would face serving a minimum of 45 years in prison and a maximum of five life terms and 35 years. In the Beta Bridge incident, he was indicted on one count each of forcible sodomy, rape, robbery and abduction with intent to defile. In connection with these offenses, Plum could face a minimum of 35 years in prison a maximum of four life terms. Both incidents occurred close to off-Grounds student housing. The Beta Bridge incident, which occurred near the University, took place along a popular shortcut between Lambeth Field Apartments and Rugby Road. The Tonsler Park sexual assault occurred near the corner of Elliott Avenue and Fifth Street extended. Asst. Dean of Students Aaron Laushway said he was relieved that a suspect had been found for the Beta Bridge incident. "Thank goodness the police were persistent and patient in their search for this man," Laushway said. Despite this development, he cautioned students to remain alert. "Safety is a keen issue in our times and the University community is not immune," he said. It is "our responsibility to be aware of our environment." (C) 2001 Cavalier Daily via U-WIRE