 Students peppered Supreme Court Justice Clarence Thomas with questions as
 part of an open session at Caplan Auditorium Monday during Thomas' two-day visit to the University of Virginia. Thomas went to two classes and had lunch with about 40 students Monday, Law School Dean John C. Jeffries Jr. said. Tuesday, Thomas' docket includes visiting a third class and dining with the Law School's Federalist Society. "One way or another, he'll have seen a lot of people," Jeffries said. During his visit, Thomas was exceptionally candid in addressing student questions on controversial topics, second-year law student Chris Rapp said. "He has been really accessible and open to meeting with students. Somebody of his stature doesn't have to be that way," Rapp said. During the hour-and-a-half question and answer session, Thomas spoke to an audience of about 300 on issues such as his stance on affirmative action, which he claims is unconstitutional. "I understand the sentiment and all with you," Thomas said in response to a question on the topic. "I just don't think sentiment will enable you to carry the day." He added it was the same type of sentimental thinking about race relations that justified segregation not long ago. Thomas also talked on the pressure of justices deciding controversial decisions. "I think it reflects well on us that we don't tear each other apart," he said. He said he respected his fellow justices, even when they held different opinions from him. "I sit between Justices Ginsberg and Souter," he said. "In almost a decade of sitting between them, I don't think they've had any influence on me." After the split decision in Bush v. Gore, Thomas said it only took the justices as long as a walk to the dining room to get back together. "I don't see that anything was done wrong. We did our best under the circumstances," Thomas said of the court decision that effectively decided the 2000 presidential election. "The only thing I'd do over is write my own opinion so I could make it clear I still agree with myself," he added. Thomas also joked about the sexual harassment allegations that came out during his 1991 hearing with the Senate Judiciary committee. He said he would still like to resolve the "unfinished business" of the Anita Hill case. Jeffries said the Law School gets speakers of Thomas' distinction about once a year. Last year, Chief Justice William Rehnquist visited for the Law School's 175th anniversary celebration. Next year, the school will host a visit from Justice Anthony Kennedy, he added. (C) 2002 Cavalier Daily via U-WIRE