
 John Pappas |The Cavalier Daily First-year College student Jenneca Graber-Grace said Charlottesville's 27.5 percent poverty rate needs to be addressed by the University, the largest employer in the area. The University's Living Wage Campaign held a rally Thursday demanding all University workers receive a living wage. The ralliers marched to Madison Hall to deliver a petition signed by more than 1,200 individuals. The petition calls for administration to schedule a meeting between Students United for a Living Wage members, legal officials and University administration senior members responsible for overseeing budgets and finances. The petition calls for an increase in oversight of contracted corporations by officially auditing University contractors and also calls for a living wage for all University workers. First-year College student Jenneca Graber-Grace initiated the rally and said workers at the University are not receiving enough pay to sustain a good life. "The work performed by these hard working people is critical to the way our University runs, yet members of our administration turn a blind eye to their treatment and compensation," Graber-Grace said. "Currently the poverty rate in Charlottesville is a staggering 27.5 percent. As the largest employer in Charlottesville, the University, holds exceptional power over the city's economic health." Fourth-year College student Caitlin Levine spoke about the University's pursuit of profit at the expense of its workers. "I feel infuriated because our public University cares more about making money than it does about your favorite dining hall worker, about the mother who cleans your dorm bathroom, about the father who gets to the Chemistry building at six in the morning to make sure that your classrooms are in tip-top shape," Levine said. "They care more about profit than those human beings." University spokesperson Matthew Charles said, the University has established its own "minimum hiring rate," which has increased by 2 percent annually for the past several years. "With the increase scheduled for later this year, the minimum hiring rate will have increased by 18.5 percent since the Presidential commitment was made, or 3.7 percent per year over the past five years," Charles said in an email. "This compares to the one state-granted increase for Classified Staff during this same timeframe of 2 percent plus longevity bonuses effective November 2013." English Prof. Susan Fraiman helped launch the Living Wage campaign when it began in 1998. She said the campaign serves to work alongside other activist groups, instead of attempting to address all issues independently. "In light of recent events, it might seem that 'wagers' should step back and allow the spotlight to remain on the important issue of sexual assault," Fraiman said. "In fact, the opposite is true. The Living Wage campaign is an invaluable resource, an indispensable coalition partner for any group concerned with social justice issues on this campus." Fraiman also said activist groups must work together in order to "sustain a culture of activism at the University of Virginia," by providing support and serving as coalition partners. "Now is the time for everyone concerned with changing the climate for women and for workers, now is the time for all of us to get involved," Fraiman said. "The categories of women and workers are not mutually exclusive. Low-waged staff are disproportionately female." Arts and Sciences graduate student Laura Goldblatt said the campaign wants to make sure students are aware of what is happening on Grounds, and to raise workers' wages. "We want to let the administration and the Board of Visitors know that there are a lot of people on campus, in the surrounding community and among the alumni who support the University doing what's right, and paying its workers a living wage," Goldblatt said.