 University Police officers arrested a Charlottesville man early Wednesday
 morning for the sexual battery of a second-year University student. Police charged James Edward Synamon, 34, on charges stemming from an incident that took place on the Lawn late Thursday night. Contrary to initial reports, police officials said the victim was not streaking when attacked, but had been in the company of others who were. Police spokeswoman Kirsten Curtis said the assault occurred while the student became separated from a group of her streaking friends. Officers arrived on the scene shortly after the incident and picked up Synamon, who had been in the area, Curtis said. She credited the fast apprehension with the victim's description of her assailant. Dean of Students Robert T. Canevari commended the victim for acting swiftly in contacting and cooperating with University Police. She "was smart enough to get police involved and gave a good description," Canevari said. But he said he was concerned about students not taking proper precautions to ensure their safety, and that they need to act responsibly to reduce risks. Curtis said students should keep to lighted pathways, avoid shortcuts at night, use the Student Escort Service and always be aware of their surroundings. Other officials said they hope that students learn something from the incident. "The real message here is that the Lawn isn't safe and never was," Sexual Assault Education Coordinator Claire Kaplan said. Although police officials said streaking was not a factor in the assault, such University traditions as streaking can contribute to sexual assault problems, Canevari said. "I would appeal to students to smarten up about streaking," he said. "Students are up there bearing their bodies and the public knows this, and there are some who go and watch." "Streaking is just setting up for problems," he added. Synamon could not be reached for comment. Police released Synamon on a $ 500 secured bond. He is scheduled to appear at Albemarle General District Court Sept. 23. Under the Virginia Penal Code, sexual battery is a Class I misdemenor, punishable by a $ 2500 fine and/or up to one year in jail. (C) 1999 Cavalier Daily via U-WIRE