
 Christopher Lynn Matthew, charged on Saturday with sexually assaulting a University of Virginia graduate student, was released from jail Wednesday evening after forensic evidence found him innocent, Commonwealth Attorney David Chapman said. According to a press release issued by the Charlottesville (Va.) Police Department, DNA test results, which came late Wednesday afternoon, cleared Matthew of all charges and proved that he was not involved in the incident. "Mr. Matthew thankfully has been excluded as a suspect," Chapman said. "He has been conclusively shown not to have any involvement whatsoever in the sexual assault." When Matthew, a 27-year-old Charlottesville resident, was discovered to be innocent, steps were immediately undertaken to ensure that he was released from custody and the case against him was dismissed, Chapman said. Chapman said Matthew originally was taken into custody Saturday morning because he was found in the area where the reported assault took place. According to Chapman, Matthew also matched the victim's description in several significant respects and was positively identified by the victim. "It's an unfortunate and embarrassing situation for Mr. Matthew and his family," Charlottesville Chief of Police T.J. Longo said. "The officers on the scene acted on probable cause. Had we acted differently, it would have been irresponsible." Despite thoughts that the assault could be connected to the serial rapist, Longo said the DNA not only cleared Matthew of all charges, but also proved that the case itself is not related to the serial rapist investigation. Now that the initial suspect has been dismissed, investigators are continuing in the search for the assailant. The DNA profile from the Saturday attack is being compared to DNA in the Virginia database. Detectives also are continuing an open investigation by canvassing the area and talking to people who may have observed the assault, Longo said. Longo added he hopes students will exercise caution by being extremely attentive and aware of their surroundings and also by avoiding situations that may make them vulnerable. "You must make sure you're not walking in an area that's dark and not increase the chances that you're involved in this kind of crime," Longo said. "That environment lends itself to someone who wishes to hide and perpetrate an attack." (C) 2005 Cavalier Daily via U-WIRE