
 The University's athletic recruitment process yesterday received off-the-field attention when the school rescinded its scholarship offer to highly-touted baseball recruit Corey Brown. The high school senior, a nationally ranked outfielder, agreed to a deal with prosecutors and on Monday pled guilty to a felony charge of battery stemming from an incident in which Brown and three other boys repeatedly had sex with a 14-year-old girl in a car. In light of Brown's despicable actions and with the integrity of the University at stake, U.Va. officials certainly made the correct decision in withdrawing their offer from Brown. Allowing Brown to come to the University would have been a serious compromise of the reputation of both the Athletic Department and the school itself. His crime shows a disgusting disregard for both the law and other people, and inviting Brown to join the University community would have gone against every standard of decency and morality. Critics often point out the lowering of certain standards for athletes, but under no circumstances should one of those involve tolerating individuals who have committed violent offenses, especially sexual crimes. Just like any other person offered admission to the University, athletes have an obligation to abide by a code of conduct that respects the law and everyone around them. Had Brown been permitted to enroll, it would have been an affront to the victim, the baseball team and all other law-abiding athletes and students. Indeed, University officials deserve praise for their actions. Rescinding Brown's scholarship offer shows a recognition of not what is necessarily the best for the baseball program but for the University's dedication to integrity in athletics and admission. Under Coach Brian O'Connor's first year of leadership, the baseball team has quickly risen in prominence, and its success indicates a bright future. A player of Brown's caliber could have easily contributed to the success of the Cavaliers, and realizing that his skill on the diamond is not the only worthy attribute in a team member shows a commendable order of priorities on the part of athletic officials. The University's action sets it leagues ahead of its peers. Future ACC member University of Miami failed to immediately end its agreement with football recruit Willie Williams, after he committed crimes on a recruitment trip that might have violated his probation for a burglary, one offense in a series of many others he was convicted of -- Williams had been arrested 10 times before. The University's swift decision in Brown's instance proves that, unlike some fellow competitors, it is not willing to hesitate in matters that can surrender the high ground on issues of right and wrong. An important aspect to consider in this type of situation is what threshold must be crossed in order for a student's scholarship offer to be rescinded. Brown's mother said the University found out about the allegations against him in September, and he signed his letter of intent in November. The University was correct in not being overly hasty to drop the offer when charges were filed, but once a conviction occurs in this type of crime, no student, athlete or not, should be allowed to come to the University. Yesterday's announcement by the University affirmed its commitment to ensuring that this community only rewards those who can be expected to respect it in the future. Some things are more important than how many victories go in a team's win column, and admitting Brown into such a prestigious program and school would have made the University the big loser in the end. (C) 2003 Cavalier Daily via U-WIRE