 With sexual assault issues having covered the front page during the past
 few weeks, it seems almost cosmic coincidence that Congress is preparing to consider a bill that would increase and facilitate the reporting of those crimes, among others. This month, the U.S. House of Representatives will examine in committee House Resolution 715, the Accuracy in Campus Crime Reporting Act. It is refreshing that the government finally is addressing a major problem in today's society. Should ACCRA pass, students at universities nationwide would have access to statistics that more accurately reflect campus crime. Now, universities can hide behind amendments to the Higher Education Act of 1965, which allow the withholding of crime statistics and information concerning campus judicial and disciplinary proceedings as part of a student's academic record. ACCRA closes those loopholes, forcing institutions of higher education to report campus crime statistics in their entirety. On first glance, the University is not part of the conspiracy to block out such information. Any criminal incident recorded by any branch of the University in any fashion (including third-person rape incident reports) gets forwarded to the University Police. Although the police pamphlet entitled "How do you keep yourself safe?" does not contain third-person report statistics this year, they will be included next year. The major loophole for accurate information at the Univeristy does exist, however: A student can pursue a sexual assault case through the Univerity Judiciary Committee without ever notifying the police. ACCRA, if passed, has the potential to rectify that problem, yet reporting numbers and changing behavior are two different questions. The United States government's actions will be futile if society does not change itself at the same time. ACCRA will be useless if no one reports the incidents of crime, and people will not come forward if the environment in which the crimes take place is unfriendly towards them. The largest problem in rape reporting at the University is not that the administration or the police artificially deflates the numbers. It is not that it is hard to report such a crime. Rather, it is that the victims do not feel comfortable coming forward to report such crimes. The bill is all well and good, but its impact here at the University would be minimal compared to a concerted program to foster a more informed, supportive community. The administration needs to work together with student organizations to coordinate a program that will increase awareness about the numerous on-Grounds resources for sexual assault victims. Such education would be critical not only for decreasing fear and increasing the number of perpetrators put behind bars, but also for making sure students know enough to avoid becoming victims in the first place. If Congress passes ACCRA, the accuracy of crime reports on Grounds certainly will increase. But bringing crime numbers down to the levels we wish for cannot be brought about by legislation in Washington, regardless of how positive the law may be. Instead, the administration and the students must work together to create those changes. The rhetoric is old, but the message still needs to stand center stage. (C) 1999 Cavalier Daily via U-WIRE