 July 17, the United States put itself in less than desirable company,
 voting with the likes of Iraq, China and North Korea against the formation of the Worldwide War Crimes High Court. The U.S.'s refusal to sanction the court leaves the world to question why the land of the free and the home of the brave fears the presence of a court formed to prosecute the worst of human behavior. It would be naive to claim that this decision to reject the court transpired in a political vacuum. Senate Foreign Relations Chairman Jesse Helms already informed the Clinton Administration that the warcrimes court charter as it stands would never gain his committee's approval. At the core of that rejection is Helms's and others' fear that the court's independent prosecutor, who can bring cases to the court unilaterally, would have too much power and would bring frivilous or trumped-up charges against American troops stationed abroad. The words "independent prosecutor" also probably struck fear in the hearts of the Administration, knowing the record of such officials in this country presently. The U.S. is afraid that an overzealous prosecutor, perhaps from a country not politically friendly, will attack American troop deployment in foreign lands rather than prosecute actual war crimes. But the government has yet to explain fully this fear, nor has it explained why the U.S. is willing to go this battle alone, ignoring the overwhelming support the court received from Britain and every other major ally. What's going on here really? For centuries, the sight of an armed man in uniform entering a village sent terror into the hearts of the civilians living there. Armies didn't liberate towns. They raped and pillaged them. All this changed 50 years ago when the G.I. became not the symbol of fear, but the paradigm of mercy. The American fighting man represented all the hope and justice that his home nation stood for. Apparently, this isn't true anymore. In Vietnam, the conduct of American forces brought shame to this nation and death to thousands of civilians. Yankees were monsters instead of liberators. In today's wars fought not against Nazis but against shabbily-dressed teenagers with AK-47s, the battlefield gets very confusing. Suddenly, with the U.S. government sending its boys overseas to fight politically-motivated wars, the American soldier has become susceptable to horrendous losses of discipline. For the first time in a century, he too has committed war crimes. It would be understandable for the Administration to protect the G.I. model soldier from prosecution. But if our soldiers are committing war crimes, why shouldn't they be subject to the same standards to which we now hold other nations' troops. Perhaps the Administration has another ulterior motive. There have been reports, largely from alternative news sources, that American troops in Somalia fired indiscrimantly on Somali civilians during a fierce battle in Mogadishu, killing scores. Much of the media coverage of the event took place in between stages of the battle, and only recorded the shocking scenes of Somalis dragging dead American soldiers through the streets with ropes. Perhaps these reports will prove false. But remember that it took several years for the My Lai massacare to become public during the Vietnam War. If Americans did slaughter civilians maliciously, however, then why are they any better than the Serbs or Rwandans the U.S. seeks to prosecute now? "Because they are Americans," is not a good enough answer. The U.S. cannot have its cake and eat it too if it expects the world to respect its views on human rights. If we intend to prosecute those who reflect the worst of human behavior, we should do so, regardless of whose side they are on, or whose flag they salute. Perhaps the embarassment of having a few Americans convicted as war criminals will make this nation reconsider the spirit of some of its international deployments. The death knells of the Cold War have not brought the end of an imperialist slant to our foreign engagements. We have fought to reinstall a puppet president in Panama, battled the Iraqis for oil reserves and muttled around Somalia in the hopes of bringing "democracy" to a nation that has never seen it. Accepting a new spirit of internationalism may put smiles back on civilians' faces when they see an American in uniform and civility back in American foreign policy. Chris Nehls in a rising fourth-year College student. (C) 1999 Cavalier Daily via U-WIRE