
 LAST FRIDAY, The Daily Progress reported that a group of students is "working with University Law professors and administrators to craft a change" that will "standardize" University Judiciary Committee sanctions against students found guilty of hate-motivated violations. This group (of four students) also wants to add a "13th tenet to the Standards of Conduct," specifically addressing verbal harassment. The recent spur of racial incidents has left our student body undeniably mired in a state of malaise. However, aggression against the First Amendment, no matter how subtle, is a misdirected and superficial response. Historically, such campus speech codes have not faired well in court. In 1988, the University of Michigan faced several racial incidents, particularly the dispersion of a flyer that declared "open season" on blacks. In reaction, UM passed a policy which prohibited any speech which "creates an intimidating, hostile, or demeaning environment for educational pursuits, employment or participation in University sponsored... activities." One year later, this policy was struck down by a federal court decision, John Doe v. University of Michigan, which wisely asserted that "while the court is sympathetic to the University's obligation to ensure equal educational opportunities for all of its students, such efforts must not be done at the expense of free speech." While Rami Samo, one of the four students involved, defended her group's work as "the most viable solution," it is not clear that this is true. First of all, restricting free speech will likely hurt the long-run promotion of diversity. Simply because people cannot articulate their bigoted viewpoints does not mean that they will lose those ideas -- instead, they will articulate them in secrecy, where unreasonable arguments are best received. By contrast, if all speech were openly promoted, even racist speech, then such speech can be openly combated with more reasonable ideas. Simply put, ignorant speech creates a reaction of better speech. Therefore, it seems diversity is best served in an open-market of expression. The NAACP, recognizing this, has a long history of working with the American Civil Liberties Union (ACLU) on free speech cases. Second, this group of four has not considered the details of racial incidents here at the University. If the attackers of Daisy Lundy (a biracial president three years ago) were caught today, they could easily be charged with assault. Strengthening the sanction for crimes motivated by hate has a weak underlying logic. We should not set a precedent of punishing people because of their beliefs, no matter how ridiculous those beliefs are. If an environmentalist student assaults an SUV driver because he absolutely hates SUV drivers, it seems intuitively wrong to punish the environmentalist more simply because of his beliefs. It is the assault, not the underlying belief (no matter how ridiculous) that should be punished. Seen in this light, punishing more strictly because of an individual's belief is undoubtedly a violation of the First Amendment. Furthermore, regardless of individual opinions on affirmative action or how to deal with racism, the University has clearly and proudly demonstrated that it has a broad support for diversity and the creation of an inclusive, comfortable community. Therefore, if a student is seen placing hateful flyers around Grounds, that student will receive considerable social sanctions. News of his identity will spread, and he or she will face considerable social pressure -- organizations would shun him or her, clubs would not want him or her, fewer people will be willing to date him or her, etc. Punishing him on account of opinions, no matter how bigoted or bothersome, displays an unfortunate unfamiliarity with and an unacceptable departure from contemporary Anglo-American legal principles.And finally, even if we were content to hamper free speech in universities, areas specifically designed to encourage the free flow of ideas, one has to wonder if it would even be enforced in legitimately racially motivated cases. None of the perpetrators of racial crimes earlier this semester has been identified, and it does not seem as though they ever will be. Instead, the amendment will probably result in a wave of superfluous UJC trials. While it is difficult to put forth any sort of comprehensive defense of (all) free speech in a 700 word column, an attempt is absolutely imperative. Seventeen years ago, the University of Michigan was in a tight situation and they folded, abdicating their allegiance to the constitution. This year, our beloved University is in danger of repeating their mistake. The crafters of these amendments to UJC policies should realize the value of free speech to promoting diversity and discontinue their efforts, which condescendingly display distrust in our community's willingness to combat racism without trampling on the Constitution's first and arguably most important amendment. However, if they pursue their assault on the First Amendment, I hope dearly that our student body will be wise enough to reject their inefficacious and ultimately un-American disregard for the Constitution. Sina Kian's column appears Tuesday's in The Cavalier Daily. He can be reached at skian@cavalierdaily.com. (C) 2005 Cavalier Daily via U-WIRE