 The vacuum left by Vance Wilkins' resignation from the Virginia House
 speakership will likely be filled by William Howell, R-Stafford, who graduated from the University Law School in 1967. The GOP will meet Saturday to nominate a new speaker. Howell has received endorsements from several of the delegates who initially considered running, including interim speaker Lacey E. Putney, R-Bedford, and Del. Robert F. McDonnell, R-Va. Beach. Howell is currently the chair of the Courts of Justice committee. Howell said his work as chair of the influential courts committee prepared him well for the position of speaker. "I've enjoyed the responsibility of the committee," Howell said. "I think I'll have the same work ethic as speaker." Wilkins resigned from the speakership in June following allegations that he settled a $ 100,000 sexual harassment case, and announced this week that he will resign from his seat in the House. Del. Harry J. Parrish, R-Manassas, who chairs the finance committee that Howell sits on, described his colleague as "quiet, but a strong leader." He added that Howell is a "very religious person and a consensus builder." Howell described himself as "not a high profile type of person." According to politics professor Larry J. Sabato, GOP members chose to support Howell because he represents a change of pace from Wilkins. "The republicans actively looked for a low-profile, congenial and collegial squeaky-clean speaker," Sabato said. "That is the polar-opposite of Vance Wilkins." Sabato compared Howell's appointment to that of Gerald Ford's as Richard Nixon's vice president following Spiro Agnew's resignation. Ford was chosen to replace Agnew because of his non-controversial personality, which offset the scandal-ridden Nixon administration. Del. Robert Hurt, R-Chatham, acknowledged that Howell is a different sort of politician than Wilkins was. Howell "has a different style than Vance Wilkins," he said. But according to Del. William R. Janis, R-Short Pump, the dissimilarity between Wilkins and Howell is not overly significant. "I wouldn't read too much into the contrast between [Howell] and Vance Wilkins," said Janis, who serves on the Courts of Justice committee with Howell. Parrish also denied that Howell was chosen because of his affable front. "I don't think [personality] entered into it," he said. Sabato spoke optimistically of the implications of having a speaker who attended the University. "Howell's selection could be good news for the University," Sabato said. "It matters enormously what the speaker of the House" thinks of the University. Wilkins was "a Hokie through and through," he added. Howell will not officially become speaker until January when the House reconvenes. (C) 2002 Cavalier Daily via U-WIRE