
 TO: MR. SANTA Claus From: Jim Prosser, Student, University of Virginia Mr. Claus, As millions of children petition you for the latest hot item of the holiday season, I'd like to take this time to ask for some gifts myself. While I'm sure that things like iPods and digital cameras top the list of many of my collegiate colleagues, I'd like to be selfless this season and ask for a few things, both tangible and intangible, for the broader University community rather than just for myself. With that said, here's my wish list of things I'd like for the University community this holiday and for the ensuing semester ahead, in no particular order: * The removal of all ugly red walls surrounding construction projects. Especially those in front of Gilmer Hall. Come to think of it, Gilmer is uglier than the walls that surround it. Remove the building instead. * A new system for dealing with sexual assault and rape on Grounds. The stories that have emerged this semester of the inadequacies of the current apparatus are shocking. These matters are too grave for a University kangaroo court to bungle. Instead, let law enforcement and courts settle the matters. Rapists belong in jail, not at the University. * A pre-Christmas gift: a snowy lighting of the Lawn, as last year's pre-lighting dusting was the most beautiful setting for the event yet. And free cider would be a nice touch as well. * A semester without a hate crime that fans the flames of racial strife at the University. Hopefully then we can make forward progress on issues of race, rather than having to react to the abhorrent events of the moment. * More professors and fewer deans and administrators living in the Pavilions on the Lawn. Mr. Jefferson wanted the Lawn to be a community of scholars, not of bureaucrats, no matter how hospitable they may be. In fact, let's have it up to students to nominate and select new pavilion residents. * A men's basketball team that will finally make the NCAA tournament for once in my four years at the University. The NIT will not be considered a sufficient substitute gift. * Speakers forums at the Miller Center that are actually scheduled at convenient times for students, rather than for the retirees that live adjacent to the center. Eleven in the morning just doesn't cut it. Sure, we don't donate money to the center, but it's our school, and we should be taken into consideration. * New Student Council representatives who will agree to make public their votes on legislation before the body. Concealing such records erodes accountability to constituencies and is undemocratic. How about considering WWJD (What Would Jefferson Do)? * A quality football bowl game for our hard-playing team, preferably one named after something other than Continental Tire. * Perhaps giving money as a present is crass, but a bigger wad from the state government this year would not be turned down. The amount we currently receive would make Ebenezer Scrooge cry of cold-heartedness. Perhaps the Ghost of University Future can pay a visit to the good governor. * The announcement of a commencement speaker who comes from outside the sphere of government. After having a governor, a former chair of the regional Federal Reserve bank and a United States senator as speakers over the past three years, it's time to go a different path this spring. I realize that most of these things can't be wrapped or dropped down a chimney. Many are gifts that require our work more than yours. Nevertheless, I hope that you can help us bring a spirit of giving and sacrifice to the community this year. We could sure use more of it these days. Always a believer, Jim Prosser (C) 2003 Cavalier Daily via U-WIRE