 Rape is not something I like to think about on a Friday afternoon. Except
 for when deciding if a first date is safe to be alone with, women generally repress the thought. It's something men often avoid thinking of altogether. But on Sept. 15 One in Four brought the subject into the light with their only open presentation of the year. This group deserves credit for its efforts to be part of the solution, and its critics should work with it instead of trying to silence it. One in Four is a group of male students who give presentations to all-male groups on how to empathize with rape survivors. By showing men the aftermath of rape, members hope to make men positive forces for prevention. I had heard criticisms of this program from female activists, as well as praise from men who had experienced it. So I went to go see for myself, and I was generally pleased with what I saw. Some critics call this program homophobic because it uses a police training video that asks male police officers to imagine a situation where two men rape them. Some also found the depiction of acts commonly associated with homosexuals as brutal to be objectionable. But the fact that a male-on-male rape is depicted doesn't make the program homophobic. Rather, it's a way to reach men by taking an honest look at their fears. Rape is a brutal act no matter whether it is considered gay or straight. True, most rapists are heterosexual men, but this includes rape of other men. In fact, the officer on the video tells the viewer that he knows these men because they have been arrested for domestic violence against women with whom they are involved, implying that they are not actually homosexual. After the video is over, the presenters point this out. If anything, this should defuse homophobia. But it's also a potential teaching moment lost. This would be a great point in the program to explain that rape isn't really about sexual desire, it's about power. Discussing this fact in the context of males raping males may help men understand how women can never really ask to be raped. This program is also valuable because it forces men to look at the entire process of rape. The police officer goes through not only the rape itself, but the problems victims have in dealing with the medical and criminal processes, and the social problems this often causes for the victim. By addressing the treatment victims often receive, the program does not reinforce rape myths, but rather brings them into the light and shows how stupid they really are. Having said this, One in Four's program did have some holes. In giving pointers on how to react to the rape survivor, the program emphasizes making her feel in control. But the program provides awkward examples. Letting the woman choose where she wants to eat or sleep is not a major step toward rape recovery. This part of the program needs to be improved. One in Four needs to explain exactly what makes these women feel out of control so they can establish some concrete steps in the rape recovery process. In response to feedback from survivors who emphasize that there is no uniform recovery process, the presenters say that different women react in different ways. They don't explain, however, how to deal with these different reactions. Members of SAFE, as well as Claire Kaplan, head of the Sexual Assault Education Office, have become involved in One in Four's training. This advice should include explanation of the different reactions of survivors, the causes, and how to deal with them. One in Four has encountered criticism that it does not accurately reflect perspectives of some activists, and especially of the homosexual community ("Sex, Lies, and Videotape," The Declaration, January 20th). However, according to Dean Foubert, who advises One in Four, the Sexual Assault Leadership Council was formed last year to foster cooperation between students concerned with sexual assault issues. It includes members of One in Four and SAFE, as well as members of the GLBT community. This is a new effort, but it shows great potential. For example, says Foubert, One in Four modified its script to address GLBT concerns that viewers might interpret the rape as homosexually motivated. Those who feel that either One in Four's program or SAFE's program should change need to come to the table so that their concerns can be addressed. One in Four may need a little work on their script, but men talking to men is a welcome addition to the sexual assault programs already on Grounds. They deserve to be praised for their efforts, not condemned. Those who don't approve of certain elements of the program need to join the dialogue for constructive criticism, so that the idealism and dedication of these young men is not wasted. (C) 2000 Cavalier Daily via U-WIRE