 Four years after a rape that made national headlines, 26 year-old Katie
 Koestner came to the University to relive that horrid night when a college crush didn't take "no" for an answer. Katie, a 1994 William and Mary graduate, visited the University to help students put a face with impersonal date rape statistics. Over 500 students piled into Newcomb Hall Ballroom on Wednesday night to hear about Katie's first college date -- one that ended in rape. But she didn't open with the grim account of what happened to her on that Tuesday summer night. She stood confidently in front of her audience and shared her childhood aspirations: "When I was five, I wanted to be a ballerina." And immediately, she made the audience care about Katie Koestner the person, not just Katie Koestner the rape victim. The room filled with laughter as Katie spoke about her first hectic days at college, ones which most University women can relate to. And then she talked about her first college crush as if merely gossiping with a group of girlfriends at a slumber party. Peter was the popular, smooth-talking guy she met during that first week, and she instantly fell for him. "We met at the trash can" in the cafeteria, she said. On their first date, Peter took Katie to a French restaurant and even ordered in French, which Katie admits finding impressive. When Peter asked if she would like champagne with dinner, Katie, then 18 years old, told him she did not drink. But she concedes that she finally gave in to his persistence. "In my mind I had only given in to two sips of champagne," she said, but added that was probably what gave him the impression that she could be easily persuaded. Following dinner that night, she invited him back to her room. Before their first date had ended, he raped her. "You might think I am the most naive woman in the world," Katie said to the audience. "You could have called me naive if the definition of naive is you think that you can like someone and be alone in a room with them and not have sex," she said. But those who came to hear what Katie had to say said she seemed anything but naive. "She was totally not what I expected at all," first-year College student Josie Richards said. "She was really small and delicate, but she radiated strength. I don't think anyone could have walked away untouched." She spoke softly and casually -- but the audience paid attention. "She had a fabulous technique and really knew how to use her voice," first-year College student Emily Harding said. "When she first got up there, I thought there was no way she was going to be taken seriously because she had such a little girl voice. But she held our attention no matter what." The women in the crowd said Katie gave them a lot to think about. "You don't always think about how fast things can go wrong," Harding said. "I could definitely relate to her" situation. Katie has visited over 450 colleges and high schools to tell her story, hoping to promote awareness about the realities of sexual assault. And for the University students present, she was successful. Hearing Katie speak "makes it so much more real," Richards said. Katie also has appeared on "Larry King Live" and "The Oprah Winfrey Show." Her face has graced the cover of Time Magazine. And HBO, which took notice of her story in 1993, produced a docudrama entitled "No Visible Bruises" based on her experience. She acknowledged that speaking about sexual assault was not what she planned on doing after college. But Sarah Curtis-Fawley, Sexual Assault Facts and Education president, said she recognized Katie's potential as a speaker when Katie visited her high school. "I thought she was a very powerful speaker in high school," Curtis-Fawley said. Since her first year at the University, Curtis-Fawley said she wanted to bring Katie here to speak. "I think the issue is in the forefront of people's minds this semester," she said. "It is an important [issue] for people to talk about." SAFE members invited Katie to the University so she could do just that -- get people talking. Even though you could hear a pin drop during her speech Wednesday, the silence has ceased. Students have been buzzing about Katie for the past couple of days. Katie made a concerted effort to include the men from the audience in the dialogue, asking them to all go home and tell a friend the importance of the subject. In response to Katie's emphasis on the male role in curbing sexual assault, 1996 University graduate Sean C. Corso stood in front of the audience to support Katie and offer a male perspective about what she said. "All you guys go out and tell your friends and frat brothers that this is an important issue," Corso said. Katie said tackling the issue of rape is going to take a united front -- including both men and women. "I don't think rape is ever going to end by women's voices alone," Koestner added. But she did not neglect the ladies, by any means. She recommended women on Grounds keep talking about the importance of sexual assault education and to understand the gravity of the issue. Many students who heard Katie said her words have made them more cautious. "She told us to be smart and to keep our wits about us," Harding said. Katie also dispelled the myth that most women are raped by strangers, stating that less than 20 percent of rapes are committed by someone who does not know the victim. This statistic surprised audience members. "In her speech, Katie said she was more frightened of some nameless boogieman than this guy she was spending all this time with," Richards said. (C) 1999 Cavalier Daily via U-WIRE