
 The Parents' Program of the University of Virginia Alumni Association announced Thursday it is donating an additional $30,000 to the existing $20,000 to any person who can provide information leading to the apprehension and conviction of the serial rapist. A concerned parent anonymously donated an additional $5,000, boosting the total reward to $55,000, which more than doubled the previous amount. The serial rapist is responsible for seven reported incidents of sexual assault over the past eight years, some of which affected University students. "The Parents' Program has long been very interested in student safety and security, and when they met last week, the issue of the serial rapist was brought up by some of the parents, and they felt a need or a desire to make a contribution that might help in the apprehension of the serial rapist," University spokesperson Carol Wood said. According to Parents' Program Co-Chair Jeff Hillebrand, the group meets twice a year to allocate funds donated by non-alumni parents to student programs and handle proposals from the University's administration and academic deans. One of the members suggested contributing money towards the capture of the rapist in a meeting held over Parents' Weekend. "This was not in response to a specific proposal but more to the overall safety [of] students on and off Grounds," Hillebrand said. Since the Parents' Program was founded in 1980, student safety has been one of its primary focuses, Hillebrand said. "This was in that spirit," he said. "We know this is a predator that has been in the Charlottesville area for sometime, and we are hoping through our small efforts we can bring this person to justice." University Police Chief Michael Gibson said Charlottesville Police detectives are following a number of leads and are hopeful that the increase in the reward will bring someone forward who may have information pertaining to the case. "We are convinced there is somebody who has information that has yet to step forward," Gibson said. Charlottesville Police Lt. J.W. Gibson said the suspect came into the victims' homes through unlocked doors and windows. He said he encourages students to lock their doors to prevent strangers from entering and to contact the police if they see any unfamiliar persons in their homes. According to Gibson, many peeping toms incidents go unreported. "This person is out stalking and hunting for a victim, and that hunting takes the form of peeping," he said. "That's how they choose their target, so it's important for people to report that sort of activity." Gibson said he wishes to correct the misconception that this case only pertains to females. "This person is out looking at windows, so he doesn't know who he's going to see," he said. He emphasized that anyone, male or female, who witnesses suspicious activity should report it to the police immediately. "We all have a mutual responsibility to one another to make it a safe community and do what we can," Gibson said. (C) 2005 Cavalier Daily via U-WIRE