
 Marshall Bronfin |The Cavalier Daily The Honor Committee and the University Judiciary Committee met Sunday to discuss the coming semester and review outreach and recruitment initiatives. Fourth year College student and Honor Chair Nick Hine spoke about upcoming changes in the Honor Committee interview process, saying the group hopes to include non-members in the interview process. "It's going to help us recruit a more diverse group of support officers," Hine said. "We are suffering from a diversity issue, not just racial diversity but diversity of opinion and experience." Hine emphasized that Honor belongs to the University community, not any subset group. Martese Johnson, third year College student and Vice Chair for Community Relations, discussed a potential "Honor is Everywhere" campaign, which would seek to highlight untraditional, honorable acts occurring in the University community. The committee is also looking to update their bylaws and faculty advising booklets, which haven't seen changes for years. Both Honor and UJC have reached out to first year students in particular as the University begins a new year. The two groups are hoping to generate understanding among new students about what the committees do and to generate interest for new membership. Caroline Eckert, a fourth year Nursing student and UJC Vice Chair for first years, said joint dorm talks by Honor and UJC members were held in all first year areas over the past week, in which the bodies discussed the different ways they each functioned and in what ways they were available to students. UJC Chair Timothy Kimble, a fourth year College student, had the opportunity to speak to first years before Dean Groves' address regarding sexual assault. "Although [sexual assault is] not something we deal with explicitly, it is in the standards of conduct and UJC has been mentioned in some of these discussions," Kimble said. "I really want to play a more active role." Honor and UJC also participated in "Newcomb Crawl," hosting an ice cream social for students interested in participating with either committee. Honor committee members have hosted first years at Lawn talks over the past few days, giving every first year hall the opportunity to ask questions about Honor and discuss what they hope to see with the system. Committee members said they were pleased with the effort so far. Both Honor and UJC have trials already set for this semester - UJC has 14 cases currently pending, and Honor has 11. Honor has trials planned for Sept. 14, Sept. 28, Oct. 5 and one tentatively scheduled for Sept. 21. The Honor Committee will launch mandatory student training for first years at the end of September. The training will educate first years about Honor at the University, and if students do not complete the process they will lose access to their University email addresses.