
 The career of Bill O'Reilly, the hugely popular talking head with Fox News, was plunged into scandal last week. Following allegations of sexual harassment from a coworker, many are wondering how O'Reilly, known for his moral crusades against Internet pornography and sex in the media, could engage in such questionable behavior. The key to understanding O'Reilly is not his television career, but his lesser-known career as a prolific author -- of everything from children's books to a suspense novel. O'Reilly's novel, "Those Who Trespass," is a particularly tantalizing read, containing passages like, "[Ashley] signaled her desire by removing her shirt and skirt ..." ending in a way that would be unsuitable to publish in such a respected newspaper. Though all of O'Reilly's books read as if they were written by a peevish pre-teenager, his newest is actually aimed at that demographic, "The O'Reilly Factor for Kids" -- a self-described "survival guide for America's families." The lucky kids in possession of this handy parenting-substitute are treated to a special chapter on sex on page 72. Sprinkled among O'Reilly's endorsements of casual sex ("As you will learn yourself after a couple of casual sexual experiences ...") is valuable advice on concealing sexual activity. O'Reilly sums up the most important advice of his book in an appendix formatted as a super-cool chat-room conversation. "A pinhead," he says "is a kid who brags about her sex life. I've warned you about this ... it's stupid, it's a betrayal ... it's wrong." So O'Reilly's message to kids is not "don't engage in gratuitous extra-marital sex"; it's "when you do, don't tell anybody." O'Reilly's talk about sex, clearly aimed at the pre-teen audience, seems less characteristic of a caring father than a creepy child molester. Unfortunately, for O'Reilly, not everyone got his instant message. O'Reilly has been hit with a harassment lawsuit, alleging intimidation, as well as, among other things, talk of masturbation, vibrators and other lewd sexual fantasies that sound as if they were lifted right out of his bad novel. As a conservative, I'm a fan of many conservative commentators on cable news. Bill O'Reilly was never one of them. My distaste for O'Reilly has little to do with his confrontational-crazed-maniac method of interrogating guests, rather that he seems to be infused with phoniness. As the host of the highest rated news program in the country, it makes little sense that O'Reilly suffers from an inferiority complex. But that's the impression he projects into millions of homes every weeknight. After these allegations, I finally know why for so long O'Reilly has seemed uncomfortable in his own skin. It must be hard to loudly decry sexual immorality, on television and in a book subtitled "A survival guide for America's families," when one is engaging in tape-recorded kinky phone sex, and bragging about having causal sex with foreign women and "girls," with a pregnant wife at home. One would think that if someone leveled baseless accusations against O'Reilly, he would be on television instantly denouncing them as liars, but he has done no such thing. In fact, his lawyers only contend that nothing illegal took place. Illegal? If the acts were consensual, then no. But was it stupid, a betrayal and wrong? Absolutely. The real victims of the O'Reilly saga are the thousands of kids whose admiring letters feature prominently in O'Reilly's book. They, along with much of the rest of America, bought into O'Reilly's duplicitous sham. O'Reilly claims to be a bulwark against the immorality of Hollywood and television actors. As it turns out, O'Reilly himself is an actor, playing a positive role model at 8 p.m. on weeknights. For years, O'Reilly has made millions selling morality to an audience so starved for wholesomeness that they can't tell the difference between the real thing and a knock-off. Like any product, when you discover it's defective, you demand a refund. Though O'Reilly is unlikely to relinquish his fortune, he should do the next best thing: sincerely apologize for the hypocrisy and step down from television. (C) 2003 Cavalier Daily via U-WIRE