 No one wants to think that it could ever happen to them. But for two
 University of Virginia women this week, it did. Despite the University's best efforts, sexual assault still takes place in our community a few times a year. And as such, every University student should re-examine our methods of prevention and protection. Last Thursday, a man entered a residence near 15th Street NW and Rugby Road and woke up a female resident and her male friend. Threatening both with a gun, the man ordered the male student to lie on the floor while he blindfolded and raped the female student. The University and concerned parents have offered a $ 10,000 reward. On Monday afternoon, a female student was attacked at Azalea Park in southern Charlottesville. At about 1:20 p.m., she was removing her skates in her van when the assailant approached her, threw her on her back, and choked her. He threatened her with a knife, but by screaming for help she thwarted the crime. The victim also helped the police to catch her alleged attacker, by immediately calling 911 and reporting the victim's appearance and license plate number. In the wake of these two attacks on two members of our community, the University Police and the administration have reinforced their commitment to safety on Grounds. Not only are they offering the reward for capture of the Venable assault, they also are looking into adding more lighting and walkways to the area. But while incidents like these provide a wake-up call for students in terms of their own safety, these two attacks in particular deconstruct a number of myths about sexual assault - and thus can help us better protect ourselves. The word rape often conjures up the same image: A woman walking home alone from a party late at night is attacked by a strange man hiding in the bushes nearby. In fact, few rapes take this form. And yet many sexual assault prevention programs seem to play to this myth. If we hear one thing over and over on Grounds, it is "Don't walk home alone at night." At every orientation program and every dorm meeting, students are told to use the Escort Service, or buddy up when they stay late at the library or a party. This advice is important - and key to staying safe on Grounds. Unfortunately, it applies to neither of the recent attacks. In the first, the victim was neither walking nor alone - she was in her house, with a male friend in the same room, and two roommates in the house. The second attack happened in a public park in broad daylight. Another common myth is that women are the only victims of sexual assault. In fact, as many as one in 10 males are victims of sexual assault, according to Michael Scarce's study, "Male on Male Rape." In the Venable attack, the male student was not sexually assaulted, but he was physically threatened with a gun. And last spring, a male Lawn area resident was sexually assaulted. Though not relevant in the recent cases, it's important to note that close to 80 percent of victims are raped by an acquaintance, not a stranger. According to statistics from the Department of Justice, they are raped by an acquaintance in situations like a party or a date. Almost 50 percent of sexual assaults take place in the home of the victim or the assailant, according to the Los Angeles Commission on Assaults Against Women. This kind of rape is the most common, partially because the victim often isn't aware that she is in danger. The fact is, rape can happen anywhere, anytime, and to anyone. Furthermore, a victim is more likely to be someone who has let down her guard - because the situation seems safe - and is not aware of her surroundings. Students also should take steps to prepare themselves in case an assault does happen. An attack can't always be prevented, but often can be thwarted. Monday's victim was able to scare her attacker off by screaming continuously and yelling for help - despite his threats that he had a weapon. Another potential victim was able to throw off an attacker last year by physically fighting him off. While the University often does emphasize prevention over self-defense, there are a number of opportunities on Grounds to learn how to fight back. The physical education department offers a one-credit self-defense course that teaches practical forms of martial arts and often caters to the female body. The University Police Department offers a self-defense class for women throughout the year. Created by the National Rape Aggression Defense, the RAD program is a five-day, 15-hour course that emphasizes fighting back against attackers, and teaches increased awareness as well as physical defense moves. When it comes down to it, though, the best weapon you have against sexual assault is your mind. The more you know about your surroundings, your safety, your community, the better your chances of preventing or thwarting an attack. The more you expand your concept of security - whether it be by not leaving a party with that guy you just met, making sure to lock all your windows, or learning self-defense - the less your chances of becoming a statistic. And the sooner you realize that it can happen to you, and take steps to protect yourself, the safer you'll ultimately be. (C) 1999 Cavalier Daily via U-WIRE