 Cooperative efforts between the University of Virginia, Charlottesville
 and Albemarle County police departments brought about the arrest of Shannon Leo Malnowksi, charged with raping two local women and attacking a University student. Police charged Malnowski, a 26-year-old Charlottesville resident, with two counts of rape and forcible sodomy stemming from a July 28 rape at a local high school track, a July 4, 1997 rape on Culbreth Road and a November 30, 1996 attack on Cemetery Drive. In all three assaults, the victims were attacked from behind while walking or jogging alone in the early morning. In addition to the rape charges, Malnowski was charged with indecent exposure for an incident outside of Ruffner Hall on June 16. Evidence from the indecent exposure incident led to Malnowski's arrest. A t-shirt containing critical DNA evidence matched him to the three rape cases that lacked a suspect. "Based on that recovery and identification, we received a warrant for indecent exposure," University Police Chief Michael Sheffield said. Police then learned Malnowski had left the state, said Charlottesville Police Chief J.W. "Buddy" Rittenhouse. But Malnowski was apprehended Aug. 28 in Richmond on charges of grand larceny and possession of cocaine. Richmond police searched for outstanding warrants and contacted authorities in Charlottesville. Malnowski was transported to Charlottesville on Tuesday. Alhough Malnowski is being held in custody, police said they plan to investigate whether he may be linked to other unsolved rape and assault cases. During the summer of 1997, there were several sexual assaults on local and University women that prompted concern for the safety of Charlottesville residents. "When you can solve cases that are two or three years old, it gives you a real lift," said University Police Captain Michael Coleman. But Sheffield was quick to point out that students still need to take precautions when it comes to safety. "We'd like to remind faculty and students that we still have unresolved cases and this man is not responsible," for all of them, he said. Students always should know their surroundings, use the buddy system and avoid taking the same route every day, Coleman said. Police attribute the arrest to the cooperation between departments. "We are very fortunate that we have such a close working relationship," Sheffield said. "We don't separate the crime with the brick walls at the University. The same people that commit crimes in Charlottesville commit them on Grounds," he said. (C) 2000 Cavalier Daily via U-WIRE