 Results from a new national study show that about 1,400 college students
 die every year in alcohol related incidents and another 500,000 are injured. The study, released last Tuesday, was conducted by the Task Force on College Drinking of the National Institute on Alcohol Abuse and Alcoholism. The study also shows that over 600,000 students are assaulted by other students who have been drinking, and 70,000 are the victims of alcohol related sexual assaults. The first year in college and even the first few weeks are the most dangerous times, according to the study, and increased efforts to curb high risk drinking appear to have failed. The NIAAA study expanded on past analysis that focused on individual deaths and injuries to students who drink. It also gathered data on incidents caused by intoxicated students, which increased the overall number of estimated injuries and deaths. Reactions to the NIAAA study at the University indicated administrators are already well aware of the consequences of drinking, but still remain concerned. "We don't need a study to tell us there is a problem, we have our own stories to confirm that," Dean of Students Penny Rue said. "Regardless of how many die, and studies will always quibble over those numbers, it is too many." In order to estimate how many deaths and injuries were related to alcohol, the NIAAA used national data from the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention and the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration and other analyses. Because college students make up 31 percent of all Americans ages 18 to 24, the NIAAA assumed college students would account for 31 percent of all deaths and injuries in that age range. The study also utilized a survey given to students nationwide that showed four out of five college students drink and 31 percent of college students met accepted standards for alcohol abuse. Aaron Laushway, assistant dean of students of fraternity and sorority life, said the numbers worried him. But he said he also felt optimistic because recent surveys have shown University students drink less than they used to and less than they think they actually do. "The suggestion the data makes is disturbing -- it shows alcohol plays way too central a role in the lives of students," Laushway said. "However there is encouraging news, and often these kinds of studies tend to belie the good things that are happening," Laushway said. "Students have taken proactive measures to address concerns and to alleviate them." Laushway said he believes such studies help increase community dialogue. The NIAAA study also discussed potential remedies for problems, almost all of which Rue reported are in use at the University. "We are one of the leaders nationally," Rue said. "We use many programs, like social norming, which is a data driven program to decrease perceptions and downplay peer pressure." Though Rue said she thinks still more could be done to work with the community in Charlottesville, both she and Laushway said they believe the University engages in "good coordination." The NIAAA study said current anti-drinking policies are ineffective and have done little to reduce high risk drinking among college students. (C) 2002 Cavalier Daily via U-WIRE