 Last night, author Michael Scarce held a discussion with students
 concerning male-on-male rape, alerting audience members to the issues male victims face. The discussion, which included about 35 students, was based on Scarce's new book, "Male on Male Rape: The Hidden Toll of Stigma and Shame." The event was sponsored by the Women's Center, Sexual Assault Facts and Education, the University Police department and the Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual and Transgender Union. Scarce said it is "fairly rare to hear of men being raped ... You only hear of the weird scenarios, like in the movie 'Deliverance.'" He said stereotypes, such as those formed in that movie and in American culture, are the biggest obstacle that male victims of rape face. "The number one issue of stigma that male survivors face is that of homophobia," he added. It makes it difficult for survivors "to get the kind of support and services they need." In addition to stereotypes, male victims of rape face some problems that female victims do not. "Male survivors have higher levels of anger and frustration," Scarce said. "Quite often survivors, especially heterosexuals, will question their sexual orientation afterwards." Even when a male rape victim comes forward to seek help, there are often no services provided because organizations for female rape victims are often not trained or equipped to deal with male rape victims and their problems. He said about 5 to 10 percent of all sexual assault victims are male, and most of those assaults involve members of the same sex. Oftentimes, male rape victims face difficulties even in the legal realm. Laws concerning rape vary by state and often are gender-specific--for instance, defining rape as committed by a male against a female. Often, only sodomy laws are applicable in male-male rape cases. Scarce, who formerly served as the coordinator of rape prevention at Ohio State University and became involved as an OSU student with lesbian/gay student groups. His new book is the only book to deal with male-male rape. Sexual Assault Education Coordinator Claire Kaplan said she first saw Scarce at various events around the state concerning rape survivors and sexual assault last year. "I was very impressed with his speaking skills when I first saw him, and was glad to get him to speak here," Kaplan said. (C) 1999 Cavalier Daily via U-WIRE