 An attempted sexual assault on 17th Street early Saturday evening caused a
 University student to receive medical treatment from University Hospital. She was released from the Hospital the same night after she received stitches for her injuries. The student, who did not want her name to be released, said she was attacked at about 6:30 Saturday night at the intersection of 17th and Gordon Avenue while she was returning home alone from the football game against the University of North Carolina. She had been drinking, but she said she was not intoxicated. "I was walking home from the game and passing over Beta Bridge" when she was approached by a man with a camera and a bicycle, the student said. "He said he wanted to take a picture of me--I knew it was a farce, but I thought it was harmless." As the student walked along to 17th Street, she said the attacker dropped his bike and asked to take another picture of her. But after she did not respond, the attacker chose to use force. "He came at me and put his hand over my mouth," she said. "He started to get angry--he said he had a gun." She added that the attacker attempted to physically assault her in the middle of the street. "He took both of his hands and pulled outwards on my cheeks," the student said. "He started to get angry." The student said she made strong attempts to defend herself. "I made myself as heavy as possible," she said. "I began kicking like only a mad, mad soccer player could and I finally got his hand off of my face and screamed and screamed and screamed." She said police and ambulances responded after several students took her into a house near the location of the attack; a male student attempted to chase down the attacker but was unsuccessful. The attacked student said while she did not have an exact recollection of the assailant, she described him as about 24-25 years old, about five feet six with short, sandy blonde hair, wearing camouflage clothing. The student said Charlottesville Police Officer B. N. O'Donnell was working on the case. O'Donnell could not be reached for comment. But the student said Charlottesville Police are investigating whether the incident may be connected with an Oct. 15 rape underneath Beta Bridge. "They said it could quite possibly be the same attacker," she said. The student said she hoped she could warn other students about the dangers of sexual assault and specifically emphasized the early time of her attack. "I can't believe it happened at 6:30" at night, she said. "I think it's very important to emphasize it was a very common time of day." Dean of Students Robert T. Canevari said he was not aware of the incident. He also expressed concern about the lack of communication from Charlottesville Police. "I'm happy to hear she was successful in fending the guy off," Canevari said. "But I'm concerned about the lack of information shared by the Charlottesville Police." Canevari also warned students about being aware and cautious at any time of day. "A lot of these [potential attackers] look for times of opportunity," he said. "The streets were probably kind of quiet" because many students were still at the football game. (C) 1999 Cavalier Daily via U-WIRE