 If you are looking for a feel-good movie full of bunnies and daffodils,
 look elsewhere by all means. "The Pledge," Sean Penn's third directorial effort, focuses on the obsession, loneliness and downfall of Det. Jerry Black (Jack Nicholson, at his best). Although it may appear to be a standard detective mystery on the surface, Black's case merely supplements the film's character study of Black. "Pledge" begins rather conventionally with the discovery of a rape and murder of a little girl in rural Nevada. Black, on the brink of retirement, investigates the crime scene. A mentally challenged Native American (Benicio Del Toro), witnessed leaving the crime scene, is quickly arrested. The suspect commits suicide shortly after being manipulated into a confession by one detective. Case closed, right? Not in Black's opinion. He starts investigating and learns of the girl's supposed relationship with a "giant" she called "The Wizard." Despite uncovering a pattern of identical crimes, Black is forced to retire. He buys a dilapidated gas station near the next potential crime scene and strikes up a relationship with a single mother (Robin Wright Penn) who has a young girl who matches the murdered girls' characteristics. Adapted from Friedrich Durrenmatt's novel, Penn proves that conventionality is not his cup of tea. The grim character portrayal and leisurely pace the film takes in its second half are unexpected and differ markedly from the majority of detective thrillers. Black's hobby - fishing - matches this pace nicely. The few red herrings that writers Jerry Kromolowski and Mary Olson-Kromolowski place throughout reel in the audience, which becomes uncomfortable with the sights of the grisly murders and grows anxious to find out who is responsible. Unlike most detective stories, "Pledge" does not try to create an elaborate plot full of witty banter. Instead, it realistically depicts a hero who pursues justice so far that it takes over his own life. If there is anything to be learned here, it is to accept a life of moderation, because excess inevitably leads to obsession and can not only torture but also destroy one's soul. "Pledge" says almost nothing explicitly about Black's past. The writers only hint about his life, but there are clues sprinkled throughout as to why he made the pledge to find the killer. Penn spends most of the movie allowing us a glimpse into Black's head. For example, there is a cleverly shot sequence at his retirement party where everybody is in focus except for Black, suggesting a deep sense of isolation. Nicholson once again proves he is still one of the greatest actors in the game. Unlike past unforgettable performances that highlight his ability to act eccentrically without going over the top, his acting here is all about subtlety. The mere shifting of his brow elucidates much of the man's intricacies. Black's descent into madness is executed exceptionally as he struggles to retain his grip on reality. Strong supporting performances by Del Toro and especially by Wright Penn raise the movie's bar of credibility. Penn's slow, occasionally discomfiting narrative may turn off some viewers, who might walk away feeling that the film is uneventful and unsatisfying. However, one must realize the crime investigation and its resolution are secondary to the scrutiny of Black's psyche. Penn gives an example here of man's tendency toward self-destruction and tells us that only restraint will keep humanity from teetering off the edge. (C) 2001 Cavalier Daily via U-WIRE