 Bright green flyers deriding the Jefferson Area Drug Enforcement Task
 Force as "JADED" and chalkings of marijuana leaves blanketed University of Virginia Grounds last Friday around the Bryan Hall walkway and the Ruffner Hall pedestrian bridge. Some of the fliers featured a large picture of the serial rapist in an attempt to argue that funds allocated for the "Operation Spring Break Down" drug bust would have been better spent finding the serial rapist, who remains at large. A chalking on the side of Ruffner Hall had the Web address of the National Organization to Reform Marijuana Laws written below a picture of a marijuana leaf. Although remnants of pro-marijuana chalkings still remained on some university buildings Thursday, the fliers all had been removed from the Bryan Hall walkway. University Police Capt. Michael Coleman declined to comment on the anti-JADE message expressed by the fliers, but recognized the right of the individuals who posted them to spread their message. "What they're talking about is entirely their opinion," Coleman said. "This is a free country and they can say whatever they'd like to say." The majority of the students arrested as part of "Operation Spring Break Down" were indicted for marijuana possession and distribution charges. Kathy Radd, chair of the Alcohol and Drug Abuse Prevention Team, rejected the fliers' message belittling the recent drug bust. "I do think it's important for our police departments to try and cut down on drug use at U.Va.," Radd said. "I do think it's a good idea to try and focus their attention on dealers." Similarly, other students rejected the notion that the operation was a fiscal mistake for local law enforcement. First-year college student Matt Strampe disagreed with the fliers' message that money spent on the drug crackdown would have been better used tracking down the rapist. "As far as blaming the people that operated the drug bust for a rapist still being on the loose -- I just thought it was a little extreme and a little out there to go ahead and blame [the drug bust] on that," Strampe said. Second-year college student Adam Weiss said he was uncertain of the cost of the drug bust versus the search for the rapist. "It seems that if they had been planning [the drug bust] for a while, not going through with it would be wasteful," Weiss said. Third-year college student Katie Houk said the illegality of marijuana only leads youngsters more easily to more dangerous drugs. "From my personal experience at U.Va., kids try illegal things all the time," she said. "I think making marijuana illegal does not prevent kids from trying it. By making marijuana illegal you're forcing kids to go to drug dealers and then the temptation is to try more hardcore kinds of drugs." Second-year Engineering student Ewen Cheslack-Postava, however, said he agrees with JADE's efforts to limit drug use, but doesn't think the recent drug bust was the best way to accomplish that goal. "I don't know what to say besides that [the posters] are right," Cheslack-Postava said. "Money spent on drug enforcement doesn't even have to go towards the crime fighting that it's geared to. Give some money to schools to educate children on the risks" of drug use. (C) 2002 Cavalier Daily via U-WIRE