 If a stranger asked you about George Takei, would you respond with a
 puzzled look, or would you know that Takei is better known as Mr. Sulu, helmsman of the Starship Enterprise in the original television series Star Trek as well as related feature films? Takei visited the University on Saturday as a participant in the Asian American Student Conference to talk about the need for unification in the Asian-American community. In fact, the politically active man behind the character reveals an interesting personal history, from his early childhood in a Japanese internment camp to his current aspirations. Early Activism "Before I could even vote, or legally register, my father was very much involved in the legal process. We didn't volunteer; he would volunteer us in political campaigns, stuffing envelopes, making posters, demonstrating outside of hotels. It was fun, for an active-oriented kid, it was great fun working for people," Takei said. Along the way, Takei encountered several people, including Eleanor Roosevelt, President Franklin Delano Roosevelt's wife. "It was very interesting, because my father was there at the campaign headquarters with me. He excused himself about midday, and I can't remember the reason why, maybe because he had to keep an appointment or something. And this was a Saturday, and I thought it was kind of funny, and for me it was electrifying for me to meet Eleanor Roosevelt, a legendary lady. "Here I was a scrub volunteer, and yet when she swept through the volunteer headquarters, she went around shaking each volunteer's hand. ... She thanked me for what I was doing. I was on cloud nine. She had that magical effect on you. "But I later discovered that my father had excused himself because he just couldn't stomach being with a Roosevelt, even knowing who she was, what she did, she was a Roosevelt. It was her husband who had sent us into internment camps," Takei said. Imperfect People in an Imperfect World At the young age of four, Takei's family was sent to Rohwer, Ark., one of the 10 Japanese-American internment camps that were put up in the U.S. during World War II. Many years later, Takei would meet up with his past as he considers the aftermath of his experiences in the camp. Does he blame the "imperfect people," as he calls everyone, that put him in the camp? "I have imperfections; we all sometimes fail the ideals that we say we stand for, and I have to work toward bettering myself within myself as well. And so when you recognize that you are working with people with frailties, [you'll see] they react in a certain way in certain circumstances," Takei said. He cites the example of Chief Justice Earl Warren and his crusade to become governor of California. According to Takei, Warren used the hot issue of the time, which was to get rid of the Japanese-Americans movement. "And on the Supreme Court what he did was truly defining of America. What he accomplished was truly pioneering. When he was an ambitious politician in California, I mean I'm sure he had it within him, that decency, that subscription to the ideals of America. But when wartime hysteria took over California, as an ambitious politician, he needed to get elected, he needed to use that issue to get elected. "So people that you might respect otherwise will give into their frailties in certain circumstances, and here in California Japanese-American and Asian Americans weren't in the position to react to that kind of hysteria." It was decades later before the movement demanded redress for the wrongs inflected by the government. "The generation that was incarcerated was too profoundly affected by it. A lot of people of my parents' generation don't want to talk about it. It's like a victim of rape. They had nothing to with it; and yet the victims somehow feel soiled and they don't want to talk about it. And that's the same syndrome that a lot of Japanese-Americans that were interned have. They want to forget it. It's too painful, and so a younger generation started a movement for redress. It is a classic example of American tradition of citizens petitioning their government for wrong that had been done. "I got my $ 20,000 and the apology signed by George Bush, in '91. I was too young to have felt the sting and pain of the experience, so I donated all my money to the National Japanese-American Museum, which is the repository of the record of that experience, which I thought was the most appropriate place for that." Earth: A Social Laboratory Takei believes America is at a crucial point. For him, the country represents a "social laboratory," in which all its constituents work together for a new future. But what kind? "I hate to use a Star Trek metaphor, but [Star Trek creator] Gene Roddenberry wanted the Starship Enterprise to be a metaphor for 'Starship Earth.' This vessel populated by all these many people. Yes different, but it is that difference, that potential, the strength of that diversity, that common challenge from this person's vantage point, with that particular background or experience that person has -- all these different vantage points coming together and out of that forging something so they can work together against a common challenge. That's the way I think we have to ultimately strive for," he said. Sulu vs.Takei Takei said he is understanding about the overwhelming association between the actor and the character. "I am fully prepared for my tombstone to read, 'Here lies Sulu, also known as George Takei.' That's part of the givens of my life. When you are associated with a character in an enormously popular program that has lasted so long, it's inevitable. ... In my situation, professionally, that is part of the givens. But it's got both its plusses and minuses. I do theater in Britain. ... Why would they send an Asian-American actor from Los Angeles all the way to London, when they have all these fine British-Asian actors? It's because the currency I have as Mr. Sulu, and [Star Trek] is popular in Great Britain. And by me being cast to play there, I can sell more tickets there. ... I'm well aware of both cutting edges." (C) 1999 Cavalier Daily via U-WIRE