
 Marshall Bronfin |The Cavalier Daily Numerous parties mentioned in the Nov. 19 Rolling Stone article, which graphically detailed the gang rape of a then-first year student at the Phi Kappa Psi fraternity house in Sept. 2012, have faced unspecified threats in recent days. Members of Phi Kappa Psi fraternity have vacated their fraternity house due to safety concerns. "Understandably, the safety of every house resident is of paramount concern," said Stephen Scipione, president of the University's Phi Kappa Psi chapter and a third-year College student, in an email. "The decision to vacate came after discussion and deliberation with our brothers and our housing corporation." Scipione said the fraternity and individual members have faced a litany of threats since the article was published. "Considering the vandalism, hate emails, voice messages, and general threats of continued violence, our brothers are obviously concerned with their personal safety and the safety of the house," he said. In an email sent Friday, University Police Chief Michael Gibson detailed a number of nonspecific threats directed at University offices. In the Rolling Stone article, members of the University Dean of Students Office - specifically Associate Dean of Students Nicole Eramo and Dean of Students Allen Groves - were lambasted for allegedly providing inadequate support to survivors and attempting to sweep University-wide problems of sexual assault under the rug. "The Rolling Stone magazine article released earlier this week has sparked an emotional response within the University community and beyond," the email read. "A number of University offices have received threats. These threats have not been specific or directed at any particular person or organization." Gibson said measures have been taken to heighten security on Grounds. "We have reached out to the FBI, Albemarle and Charlottesville Police Departments and will continue to collaborate and call upon the resources of those agencies as appropriate," the email said.