
 The issue of sexual assault is not just about one victim and one perpetrator. It is about communities and people that stand idly by while violence continues to occur. We are not one of those communities, and we are generating less and less inactive bystanders. Boys' Bid Night is historically known as a night with high reports of sexual assault. This year, we believe our community is now, more than ever, ready and willing to intervene in situations that don't seem right. It is because the awareness we raise, the bystander tools we keep in our back pockets, and the confidence we carry while we are out at night, that are making differences in our fellow wahoo's lives. We are not suggesting that sexual assault is no longer an issue or safety concern. We are painting the picture that this community does not sit idly by while its people hurt, and that we are taking action to heal. We are disheartened and confused by the actions taken by National Panhellenic Council and their constituent organizations to mandate zero participation in Boys' Bid Night by members of all Inter-Sorority Council sororities. While we have many strong hesitations and objections to their mandates, we would like to specifically focus on the countless active bystanders left out of the equation. When it comes to outreach for education about sexual assault, fraternities and sororities are some of the most accessible organizations on grounds. They hold regular chapter meetings, facilitating presentation times, and have required educational components in order to keep their FOAs. Monday night, the new members of all Inter-Sorority Council chapters attended a presentation on bystander intervention and survivor support. This means over 400 students received the tools to be active bystanders. And those numbers are contagious - friends educate friends and hold each other accountable. Last year The Handprint Project, orchestrated by One Less, One in Four and Democracy for America, included a five minute active bystander talk to IFC fraternities followed by the members putting their handprints on a banner, agreeing to honor the pledge, "I pledge, on my honor, that should I see sexual assault occurring or about to occur I will do everything in my power to intervene." This year, we have expanded our efforts to members of the IFC, ISC, NPHC and other organizations such as a cappella groups. While our outreach and the demand for these presentations and for the Handprint Project has expanded, we do not have the resources to give that same education to the majority of the men and women that are allowed to go out on Boys' Bid Night. Members of the Greek community, let this mandate from nationals, while anti-feminist at its core, not distract us from the larger conversation at hand: how can we, as citizens of this University, continue to prevent sexual assault? We are the boots on these Grounds. Become an active bystander, question the status quo, and be a part of a community that shuns rape culture. Neither we, nor the fraternity men, nor the non greek affiliated members of this community should be lumped into a category of "perpetrator" or "victim." We can all be active bystanders. Ellie Kayton and Sara Surface are members of One Less, an all female-identified peer education group that gives presentations on sexual assault, bystander intervention, and survivor support. To request a HandPrint Project mini-presentation, contact Alex Pinkleton at anp4hg@virginia.edu To request a One Less presentation, contact Ashley Brown at ab2gt@virginia.edu