 It's easy for college students to experience a false sense of security. We
 live in a somewhat isolated community with its own values and standards, and we mostly interact with people our own age. So, those rare times we do pick up the newspaper, we tend to think the horrible crimes that take place in the real world somehow cannot touch us. But in reality, we face similar dangers every day, as an alarming number of crimes take place on campuses nationwide. The Higher Education Act of 1965 recently made headlines due to revisions of its student aid procedures. But many students hope the reauthorization of the act also will add amendments requiring colleges to publish more detailed crime statistics. The House of Representatives is now considering the Accuracy in Campus Crime Reporting Act, proposed by Rep. John Duncan, R-Tenn., in February 1997. If passed, the bill will amend the Higher Education Act to revise campus security reporting procedures. At present, the act only requires colleges report incidents of murder, sex offenses, aggravated assault, burglary, robbery and vehicle theft and arrests for violations of liquor, drug and weapons laws. The ACCRA bill requires the addition of manslaughter, arson, larceny, simple assault and vandalism to the list, as well as all incidents of liquor, drug and weapons law violations, rather than just arrests. The bill also makes crime statistics more complete and accessible to the public, requiring colleges make disciplinary proceedings public and college police to keep daily logs of campus crimes. Ideally, everyone from students at college to prospective students and their parents could access those documents. Though Congress and students widely support the bill, many college administrators adamantly are opposed. Some worry the bill will deter victims from reporting crimes to people such as residence advisors. The act now does obligates them to report crimes but could under the proposed amendments. Others argue the new system will provide no help to students, but merely more paperwork for colleges. Still others fear that the addition of statistics will detract from the positive image of their institution. Those arguments, however, are insignificant in the face of the larger issue -- students have a right to know specific details about the dangers they face on campus. Any college more concerned about its image or a large amount of paperwork than the safety of its students clearly has misplaced priorities. The fear that the bill will prevent victims from reporting crimes, however, is valid. But the language of the bill allows for considerable individual discretion by colleges to determine what goes into the crime report. The college may choose to keep the names of victims, witnesses and suspects whom it has not officially charged or arrested confidential. Thus, victims who report crimes are secure in knowing the police will not release their names automatically to the public, and that they can request anonymity, as they can under the current laws. Many administrators also worry the bill will do nothing to encourage victims of sexual assault to report their crimes. According to a 1992 report from the National Crisis Center, because of the nature of sexual assault cases, only four percent of college women report their assaults ("SAFE Awareness Week works at increasing sexual violence awareness, police reporting,"The Cavalier Daily, Oct. 23, 1997). Some administrators feel the new regulations on crime statistic reporting would reduce those numbers further. This issue understandably concerns the University in particular. Victims here have a right to pursue a sexual assault case through the University Judiciary Committee without notifying the police. The bill would jeopardize that practice. It would protect, however, another option that victims at the University have: filing a third-party report. A victim of sexual assault can contact the Women's Center or the University Police and disclose the details of the assault without giving a name. The Police can make no arrests based on this information, but it does allow for more accurate statistics on campus sexual assault. Since the third-party reports provide the statistics that the bill entitles the Education Department to know -- while still protecting the privacy of the victim -- the bill should not prevent victims who report crimes under the current laws from doing so in the future. Furthermore, if colleges worry about the low rates of sexual assaults reported -- and they should -- the solution is not to keep crime statistics confidential. Instead, they must work to create an atmosphere in which victims feel comfortable enough to report the crimes. Protecting the privacy of campus crime victims is a legitimate concern. But it should not take priority over providing students with complete, accurate statistics about crime on their campus. Equipping students with this information will help them evaluate their own safety and possibly even prevent them from becoming victims themselves. College administrators know that education is the key to our future. But it also is the key to our safety. (C) 1999 Cavalier Daily via U-WIRE