
 Marshall Bronfin |The Cavalier Daily "This is a long process that will be thoughtful and deliberate given what the group is attempting to accomplish. And real progress on that journey was made," Conner said. "President Sullivan is doing a wonderful job in leading this group on its mission." The Ad Hoc Group on University Climate and Culture held its second meeting Monday, Dec. 22. The committee was created in early December to increase student safety at the University. The committee, chaired by University President Teresa Sullivan, was assembled following the publication of a Rolling Stone article which documented an alleged gang rape at a University fraternity house in 2012 - the accuracy of rich many have recently called into question. The group focuses on student culture, prevention against assault or similar offenses, and appropriate response techniques for survivors. Committee member Allison DiNardo, a Board of Visitors member, said the group worked to address ways the administration and Board could work to improve safety around Grounds. "Our agenda included the creation of working groups within the Ad Hoc Group on University Climate and Culture on prevention, response and culture as well as hearing about ongoing initiatives to address sexual assault issues as shared by President Sullivan," DiNardo said in an email. "She also reported that she should be receiving a draft amended FOA shortly." All Greek organizations and their social activities have been suspended until Jan. 9. Inter-Fraternity Council President Tommy Reid, a fourth-year College student, said the council is working on revised fraternal organization agreements, or FOAs, and said new rules would be enacted by Dec. 31. Committee member Frank Conner, also a Board member, said in an email that the committee's two-hour meeting included presentations from several student groups and leaders, who helped inform committee members about issues pertaining to the IFC, the Inter-Sorority Council, the National Pan-Hellenic Council and the Multi-Cultural Greek Council. He said committee members discussed how best to reform both FOAs and agreements with other contracted independent organizations. "We also heard from the University's consultants who have been retained to assist in the work of the University in this arena," Connor said. "And we engaged in a good and robust discussion of the issues presented." DiNardo said the committee also discussed the safety challenges which came up at last Friday's Board meeting. "The Group was glad to hear about the quick action the administration is taking to improving safety all over Grounds as well as working with local law enforcement to make the Corner and other areas where students live and congregate safer, too," she said. DiNardo also noted work a group of students put into drafting a document of suggestions for "taking action on sexual assault," which includes policies and practices for the Board, administrators and students. Though no significant decisions were made at Monday's meeting, Conner said the committee has made, and will continue to make, progress in its three core areas of focus. "This is a long process that will be thoughtful and deliberate given what the group is attempting to accomplish," Connor said. "And real progress on that journey was made. President Sullivan is doing a wonderful job in leading this group on its mission." The third meeting of the ad hoc committee will be held Jan. 28, and the committee plans to meet monthly.