 With President Clinton's signature on the new Higher Education Act, the
 federal government has taken new measures to ensure campus safety--specifically affecting crime reporting and disciplinary procedures at universities. "Students will be more aware of the community around them and will able to make informed decisions" with the passing of the HEA, said Daniel Carter, vice president of Security on Campus, Inc., a national lobbyist group concerned with campus safety issues. New HEA measures also require universities to report all crimes on and off campus to the general public, including hate crimes occurring on or near campuses. On the new crime reports, police must identify hate crimes and categorize them as such. The reports also must include two additional crime categories not previously required: manslaughter and arson. These reports will be divided between crimes that occurred on campus and crimes committed off campus. University Police Chief Mike Sheffield said University Police will be able to comply with the changes. "The University has been reporting crime statistics to the FBI since the early 1970s," Sheffield said. "This is easy to do, just a change in" how we report crimes since now they must be categorized. University Police also will be required to submit an annual report of all alcohol and drug related offenses to the Department of Education. The DOE then will compile the lists and make a national report on schools' alcohol and drug statistics. In addition, they now are required to have an open-campus police log that details all reported crimes, excepting ongoing investigations. University Police already maintain such a log, Sheffield said. Colleges and universities will face strict penalties if they misrepresent crime statistics. "The University is pleased to help provide the larger picture" to its students and the public, Assoc. Dean of Students V. Shamim Sisson said. But some students have expressed concerns with the changes. "Students won't know what exactly is on campus and what is not," said Jaime Pueschel, United States Student Association legislative director. According to Dustin Burke, Sexual Assault Facts Education president, the new act "will give students access to a more complete picture concerning safety in and around the University." The bill also will provide $ 10 million, to be distributed by the U.S. Department of Justice, to help increase protection of women on campus. Additionally, the act will include $ 1 million to fund a study about how colleges handle sexual assault accusations. Block grants also will be used to help combat binge drinking. Funds totaling $ 5 million already have been earmarked for 1999, with additional monies planned for the next four years. For schools successfully reducing binge drinking, "National Recognition" grants of up to $ 750,000 will be awarded to them by the Federal government. Officials in the office of Sen. John W. Warner, R-Va., could not be reached for comment. (C) 1999 Cavalier Daily via U-WIRE