
 At this university views on sexual mores tend to be monolithic and it is no wonder these views on controversial and complex issues are imposed on students directly from the administration. Fraternities are required to attend three education events per semester that teach members about rape, drug use, hazing and the like as a part of their Fraternal Organization Agreement. Unlike previous semesters, one event was a rally against the Marshall-Newman Marriage Amendment with keynote speaker Julian Bond held Halloween. The classication of this political event as educational is indicative of the growing insensitivity of the University itself and its community to disagreement on lesbian, gay, bisexual and transgender issues. Two weeks ago I shared a perspective on sexual assault traditionally overlooked at this University. This week I hope to do the same with the same-sex marriage debate. More than a few fraternity men agree that a marriage should be between a man and a woman. The community seemed to respond that this belief is not tolerable. Some members of the unsympathetic majority of students and faculty at the University have intimidated students who believe that homosexuality is immoral. Fourth-year Engineering student Mark Hopke was bullied for his "Gay, not fine by me" sign only last spring. There was such a strong popular vocal uprising against him that Dean of Students Penny Rue asked Residence Life to contact him about his well-being. Needless to say, two students reported anti-gay bias through the "Just Report It" Web site. Some might say that the majority of the Virginia population as a whole is against homosexuality and that the University is a "safe space" for LGBT issues. Does that mean we cannot also create a "safe space" for the majority of Virginians? Why is it a problem to find homosexuality immoral? A full 59 percent of Americans oppose same-sex marriage, according to the Pew Forum. Freedom of speech is a beautiful thing. The best way to appreciate that freedom is to let the people you disagree with the most get up on their respective soapboxes and say whatever they want. I am not the only one who believes this. In Smith v. Collins (1978), the Supreme Court upheld the right of American Nazis to march in the predominantly Jewish town of Skokie, Ill. As someone who supports same-sex marriage, I am disgusted at the tactics used on Grounds to coerce people who disagree into silence. As a community, we not only need to respect people who feel this way, but we should give them a public forum to express their beliefs without harassment, should they decide to do so. Since the University provided a forum in the Newcomb Ballroom for people to speak out against the marriage amendment, we should be willing to allow any group to speak out against same-sex marriage in the same spacious conditions. Since same-sex marriage is a touchy issue within the community and support of LGBT issues is the majority opinion, proponents feel safe exerting their opinions as strongly as possible against a much smaller and weaker group of people who think homosexuality is wrong. Supporters say this sentiment may be feuled by perceived outside intimidation. Like concentric circles, however, those not in favor of homosexuality at the University are at the bottom of the pile. (C) 2006 Cavalier Daily via U-WIRE