 Charlottesville City Police announced Thursday that fingerprints taken
 from the scene of the Aug. 26 armed rape and assault of two University of Virginia students match those of suspect Montaret D. Davis. Davis was charged with rape and armed robbery Tuesday after a Richmond DNA database confirmed that both the semen and saliva found in the victim's apartment after the attack matched a sample taken from Davis three years ago, when he was convicted of malicious wounding. Davis was charged at the Albemarle Joint Security Complex, where he had been in prison for 41 days on a sentence for driving with a suspended/revoked license. Davis turned himself into police on those charges only 14 hours after the rape occurred. Charlottesville Police Lt. Chip Harding said Davis' fingerprints were discovered on a doorframe in the victim's apartment. Police can now "positively say his hand grabbed her door frame," Harding said. He said police found a partial fingerprint when they examined the scene immediately following the assault. However, police were not able to get a positive match until yesterday, when a full set of Davis' fingerprints were run through the database. He added that the fingerprint helps solidify the case against Davis. The two DNA samples and the fingerprint are "three points you really can't contest," Harding said. University Police Capt. Michael Coleman also said fingerprint evidence makes it easier to prosecute a defendant. "The more evidence that you have in any case, the better off you are," Coleman said. Fingerprints are "a good indication and a good piece of evidence," he said. He added that fingerprints and DNA evidence carry about the same weight when presented in court. Davis allegedly broke into the victim's apartment, located in the Venable area between 15th Street NW and Rugby Road off of Grady Avenue, shortly after 4 a.m. on the night of Aug. 26. He then reportedly raped the victim while holding her male friend at gunpoint. After the rape, Davis allegedly forced the female to take a shower and then stole money from both victims' wallets, police said. He then reportedly attempted to comfort the female victim as he drank a beer in the kitchen, police said. The DNA samples came from the beer can and the victim's bed sheets. Davis also was charged with sodomy, attempted robbery, entering a dwelling at night and the possession of a firearm by a convicted felon, in addition to the rape and armed robbery charges. Charlottesville General District Court ruled Wednesday that Davis be held without bond. Harding said Davis will receive a court-appointed attorney, but the appointment has not yet been made. (C) 1999 Cavalier Daily via U-WIRE