 The cool air settled down on a handful of students gathered at the steps
 of the Rotunda on Wednesday night. Earlier that night, at 8 p.m., more than 100 students gathered to remember Wyoming University student Matthew Shepard, who died earlier this week after two men lured him from a bar, beat him and left him for dead. The six students, however, gathered to remember Dwayne Allen Wright, 26, sentenced to die that night by lethal injection. Although Wright died that night, students still gathered to contemplate the situation. Wright was 17 when he killed a woman in 1989. He is the first Virginia resident since 1924 to be executed for a crime committed as a minor. Some people would think it would be ironic that two candlelight vigils would take place on the Lawn in one night--one in memorial for the death of a victim of a senseless crime and the other over the impending death of a murderer. To some, both were victims. "I first heard about [Wright] Monday on ... National Public Radio," said third-year College student Margot Tracy, a co-chairwoman of the University chapter of Amnesty International co-chairwoman and the vigil's organizer. Tracy helped the University chapter of Amnesty International rally around Wright's cause during the week. In efforts to sway Virginia Gov. James S. Gilmore III--who could grant Wright a stay of execution--Tracy sent a letter to the governor via e-mail Wednesday morning, decrying the execution and explaining Wright's situation. Using candlelight, Tracy read her e-mail to the group standing in a circle facing each other. "Dwayne Allen Wright, like many of the seven juvenile offenders currently on death row, is African-American, grew up in poverty, was exposed to violence at an early age and has suffered serious mental problems," Tracy said. In Oct. 1989, Wright shot and killed Saba Tekle, an Annandale resident and mother of three, after an attempted rape. Doctors said Wright's mental problems are associated with his being partially strangulated by his umbilical cord at birth. The criminal trial did not go well for Wright, with defending lawyers downplaying their client's mental problems. Since his conviction, the combination of Wright's young age and his mental problems has drawn national attention. Thanks to the publicity, Tracy and her group learned about the execution, which took place in Jarratta, Va., Wednesday night. "It was very last-minute, all thrown together," Tracy said of the vigil. "I didn't expect more than 10 people to show up." Even with such a low turnout, Tracy hoped that the University community would become more aware of the issues. "I mean, I didn't really know that much about this until I did some reading on it just today," she said. The United States is one of six countries in the world that allows for juvenile perpetrators of crimes to be executed, she added. "Most states wouldn't consider a 16 or 17 old enough to vote, buy alcohol or cigarettes," Tracy read from her letter. "Our state considers him old enough to try as an adult and execute. "Mr. governor, Virginia is one of 24 states that allows for the execution of juvenile offenders. Please take us off that list," the e-mail stated. The death penalty is one of the major issues concerning Amnesty International. Members hope to end the penalty through increased public awareness. "When Dwayne Wright committed murder he necessarily forfeited some rights, but not the right to be treated as a human being," Tracy read. "That [the United States] signed the international covenant on civil and political rights but reserved the right to execute juvenile offenders does not exempt us from upholding international standards of human rights," she said. "In fact, we are breaking international law through human rights abuses committed on our own soil. How ironic for a country that claims to be a vanguard of human rights." Not all attendees at Wednesday's vigil felt as strongly about the issue as Tracy. "I believe that in some cases, the death penalty is necessary," first-year College student Liz Woodard said. Woodard attended the vigil partially because she was curious about what the vigil would be like. For Woodard, the death penalty evokes such ambivalent emotions. "It's a confusing issue," Woodard said. Others that attended the vigil, however, had set opinions about the issue. "The fact that the U.S. is one of the only countries in the world" that continues with the death penalty for juveniles is surprising, first-year College student Ginny Weckstein said. After the moment of silence, everybody extinguished the small candles. "I was running around a lot all day getting this thing together, but during that moment of silence, it was a chance to remember that this was for a person, a human person," Tracy said. "We didn't expect to get a stay of execution," she said. "But the least we can do is to show our support and make a stand." (C) 1999 Cavalier Daily via U-WIRE