 In response to safety concerns for students on and off Grounds, University
 of Virginia students soon may be supplied with safety whistles and educational pamphlets informing them what to do if they are attacked. If the proposal of Asieh Nariman, second-year College student and Lambeth Area Council vice president, is implemented, whistles will be distributed to all University students. If attacked, students can blow the whistles and alert others to help them. "You could use the whistle anywhere," Nariman said. "Even in an apartment or a fraternity house." Students would also be given information pamphlets about how and when to use the whistles, and other ways to deter attacks. Nariman also hopes to offer classes at the beginning of each school year to teach students about how to avoid assaults near Grounds. She said she first introduced the plan to the Lambeth Area Council in response to the sexual assault that occurred near Lambeth in the fall, but then decided to apply the idea to the entire University. She added that William W. Harmon, vice president for student affairs, helped Nariman put the project together and said she could count on $ 3,000 of the initial funding from his office. Harmon said that the University of Pittsburgh, where he used to work, also used whistles as a safety tool. "I think it's a good idea," he said. "It's just one way of developing deterrent and one way students can call attention to themselves if they are threatened." He said Nariman had originally wanted to buy 9,000 whistles, but said he believed the University should initially purchase only four or 5,000. "I think we should start small," he added. The Alumni Association has also pledged $ 1,000 for the whistle initiative, Nariman said. According to Nariman, the Inter-fraternity Council and the Inter-sorority Council both support the whistle plan and have agreed to help with distribution, education and funding. Nariman plans to distribute whistles to men as well as women because, "if a guy is being assaulted, it's okay to alert other guys." She said if men had whistles, they could also alert other men to help a woman who is being attacked. Nariman also worked with Dean of Students Robert T. Canevari on the whistle proposal. "I support her efforts to educate and make people aware of safety concerns and to make whistles available and to give them to people who want them," Canevari said. Although she has received support from the Police Department, the University Alumni Association and the Parents Program, some students are skeptical about whether the whistles will help improve safety on Grounds. "I don't think it will help because at the point you have to use [the whistle] it will be too late," second-year College student Erika Rietz said. But she said it's a "nice sentiment." First-year College student Julia Villa agreed that the whistles may not help prevent attacks. "I guess it's a nice concept, but how many people are actually going to wear the whistles and use them?" Villa said. Nariman said she hopes the program will be implemented this fall. "The whistles are not a joke," she said. "We definitely care about the safety of University students." (C) 1999 Cavalier Daily via U-WIRE