 Turns out that the execution will be televised after all. On May 16,
 almost 300 survivors and relatives of victims of the Oklahoma City bombing will watch on closed-circuit television as Timothy McVeigh is strapped to a table and given a series of lethal injections. It will be the first federal execution since 1963. Few can doubt that McVeigh deserves pain and suffering for the 168 people he killed by bombing the Oklahoma City federal building. It is ironic, then, that the death penalty gives McVeigh virtually everything he could wish for. First, his death will be quick and painless. Second, and more importantly, it will make him a martyr for other anti-government extremists and grant credibility to his cause. The survivors of the bombings and their families who have chosen to watch the execution want to see McVeigh suffer. Their desire for revenge is wholly understandable. McVeigh wrought tremendous pain and suffering upon them and upon their loved ones, so they believe that seeing him killed will bring them some sort of satisfaction. It is some sort of justice, an eye for an eye. McVeigh's execution may not give viewers the satisfaction they seek, because he will not feel the pain he inflicted on his victims. He will be given sodium thiopental, a muscle relaxant, that will protect him from the pain of death, quickly followed by two other injections to induce cardiac arrest. It will be quick, it will be painless, and then it will be over, and McVeigh will not pay for any of his crimes anymore. Life in prison would be a better punishment. Contrary to the rosy picture the media may paint of federal penitentiaries as places where prisoners get free meals and cable, life at a maximum security prison is no day at the beach. Prisoners do not have television. They do not have video games. They are in their cells, alone, for 23 hours of every day. For the short time they actually interact with others, they have beatings and rape to fear. Confining McVeigh to a cell with nothing but his own thoughts to occupy him until he dies surely would be a better punishment and a better infliction of suffering than a quick and easy death. Executing McVeigh is a way of furthering his cause by giving it credibility. When you look at why McVeigh bombed the Oklahoma City federal building in the first place, McVeigh's position as the first person in the 21st century to be executed by the federal government is highly ironic. The bombing was a protest against what McVeigh calls the "lawlessness" and use of violence by the government. This was reflected in his choice of a government building as a target. McVeigh first became angry and disillusioned with the government after fighting in the Gulf War and what he saw as the United States' recourse to violence and aggression in its role there. After he came home, two other events further fueled his anger. In 1992, a standoff in Ruby Ridge, Idaho between federal agents and white supremacist Randy Weaver resulted in a federal agent killing Weaver's wife and son. McVeigh was upset that the agent did not receive a manslaughter charge. McVeigh became even more angry after the 1993 siege at Waco, Texas, where 70 Branch Davidians died in a fire after a standoff with federal agents that lasted 51 days. He saw the Ruby Ridge and Waco incidents as proof that the government was killing people and not being held accountable for it. In a March 2000 "60 Minutes" interview, he said that after hearing about these incidents he decided that citizens need to "keep government in check." When asked if violence is an acceptable option, he said, "If government is the teacher, violence would be an acceptable option." Now, the government is essentially proving him right by killing him. Executing McVeigh just makes him a martyr in the eyes of other extremists. They will admire him because he "died for his cause." They also may think of McVeigh's execution as the government killing one of its own citizens, and further proof of the government's "lawlessness," lack of accountability, and use of violence that McVeigh was railing against. Essentially, the best way to give credibility to McVeigh's cause in the eyes of all the other extremists out there is to have the government kill him. What would be the ultimate punishment for McVeigh? Let him die alone in a jail cell, 50 years from now, unreported, unnoticed, un-glorified. Instead of killing him and letting him go out in a blaze of fame, validating his acts in the eyes of other anti-government extremists, let him die with the knowledge that his wasted life was for naught because he did nothing to further his cause. (C) 2001 Cavalier Daily via U-WIRE