
 The University of Virginia Judiciary Committee discussed a proposal to enhance sanctions for hate motivated crimes Sunday night. The proposal was suggested by the Ad Hoc Committee for Hate Crimes that was established after 70 percent of the voting student body voted in favor last spring of a referendum which sought stronger sanctions on individuals convicted of hate crimes. "Any violation of the University Standards of Conduct motivated by the age, color, disability, national or ethnic origin, political affiliation, race, religion, sex (including pregnancy), sexual orientation or veteran status of the victim will be deemed an aggravating circumstance, and will result in a more serious sanction up to, and including, expulsion from the University," the considered proposal reads. "From a legal standpoint, we have to respect First Amendment rights," said Dae-In Cha, president of the Asian Business Club at the Darden School, in a presentation supporting the resolution before the UJC. "What we have for you today is the culmination of half a year of work with students and administrators." Cha also stated that 80 percent of Darden School students have endorsed disciplinary conduct for discriminatory harassment. The committee outlined five reasons why this constitutional change is being proposed: It is legally defendable, it will increase the visibility of diversity, various key constituents in the student body are in favor of the proposal, similar systems have been implemented at other top-tier universities and it makes sure the intent of hate is punished. "This is not a question of adding to or modifying the standards of conduct. [The proposal] doesn't address the conduct itself," UJC Chair Tim Ormsby said. "It addresses the motivation [of a crime] It has to be alleged that a standard has been violated." UJC representatives will vote on whether they will send the proposal to the student body as a referendum Thursday at 7 p.m. in the trial room on the fourth floor of Newcomb Hall.The meeting will be open to the public. (C) 2006 Cavalier Daily via U-WIRE