 I THOUGHT I had heard it all. President Clinton's sex scandal brought
 women out of the woodwork and set media outlets aflutter, but it looked like we had successfully eroded the boundaries of good taste for the last time. Nothing more could shock or infuriate me. That is, of course, until I flipped to MSNBC last night and discovered a forum: "Women: Will you stand by your President?" How far is the media willing to descend and how much longer will society remain tolerant? MSNBC, quickly becoming the "all scandal, all the time" network, obviously hasn't tired of exploring every sordid detail and possible angle to the story. But it's one thing to report on breaking events -- Kathleen Willey's accusations, grand jury testimony, etc. It's quite a different matter, however, to create news. That's exactly what MSNBC is doing with its so-called chats and forums. What exactly does women standing or not standing by the president have to do with what really happened? Which, I may add, still is not clear. The language the sex scandal inspires, though, is even more disturbing. The public increasingly enjoys defining what constitutes sex and parents all over the country are faced with the delicate task of answering their childrens' questions about oral sex. As Tammy Wynette's "Stand By Your Man" played in my head, I heard terms used to describe Clinton like "sexual predator" bandied about the MSNBC forum. Excuse me? Clinton may indeed be a jerk -- a slimeball, an adulterer, a sleaze and far too smooth for his own good -- but isn't it an overstatement to brand him a sexual predator? At the heart of the matter, of course, lies our conception of morality and integrity. I heard one puritanical commentator decry the state of a society that gives a cheating president high approval ratings. Let's get off our moral high horses and take a reality check. Adultery, no matter how morally repugnant, has existed throughout the history of our country. Is Franklin Roosevelt any less a great president because he engaged in an affair with woman after his marriage began? Did his indiscretions affect the way he led the country? Does anyone not support his presidential actions because of his philandering? No. Clinton's job performance isn't affected by his affairs. It's hurt by the constant media barrage directed at his personal life. American society demands a lot from its political leaders. We expect them to be god-like -- brilliant, well-educated, poised and well-spoken. At the same time, however, we demand a man of the people. Someone who can relate to the problems of everyday citizens -- who addresses their concerns and relates to their lives. But if a politician fails to live up to their extremely high standards and acts very much like an everyday person -- human -- society disowns him. They learn a difficult lesson in finding that their god has clay feet. In the current situation, the public seems to support Clinton. Though the majority of the nation indicate they believe he committed the sexual improprieties, his approval rating has gone up. This is a signal that perhaps Americans just don't care. The economy is doing well, the country seems to run on course and the American people are using his job performance as criteria to judge him. The media, however, has taken hold of the story and will not let go. While they madly defend their never-ending coverage by calling it a serious discussion of the accusations against the president, the media focus seems instead to center on the latest fodder in the gossip mill. It seems strange that an industry that takes great pains to explain its increasingly diluted coverage as "giving the public what it wants," would continue to harp on a story that so many are tired of hearing about. Despite the many polls professing society's indifference, a market for this tabloid-style journalism still exists. It reflects poorly on our society that one can approach a random group of people and conduct an in-depth discussion of the ins and outs of the scandal, yet very few people could speak intelligently about foreign policy initiatives. The media built Clinton and now they are tearing him down. Journalism's darling in the 1992 election, Clinton now faces a press which examines his professional and personal life under the harsh lens of a microscope. The scandal's the thing these days and the fallout the story of choice. Much of the media has set an agenda and society's willingness to follow helps perpetuate a shift away from real issues. There is no question that the Clinton scandal represented a juicy tidbit of news -- an interesting new twist in the ongoing mystery surrounding the White House. But the time has come for the nonsense to end and for the country and the media to concentrate on what really matters. (C) 1999 Cavalier Daily via U-WIRE