 There is no shortage of issues to argue about when it comes to the
 Clinton-Lewinsky scandal. It raises questions about everything from the presidency to adultery and elicits a range of viewpoints. But no one can dispute the fact that it has brought the issue of sexual harassment back into the public eye -- and revived countless debates about its definition. Sexual harassment even has found its way back into the forum of higher education, as some scholars raise an old question about just what colleges should include in their sexual harassment policies. In 1990, Billie Wright Dziech, a professor of language arts at the University of Cincinnati, published a book entitled "The Lecherous Professor: Sexual Harassment on Campus." (Urbana: University of Illinois Press, 1990). In it, she explored the nature of consensual sexual relationships between faculty and students at higher education institutions in the United States. In light of the current presidential scandal, Dziech has become vocal again, arguing that colleges must change their sexual harassment policies to include an outright ban on those relationships. In an essay published March 20 in The Chronicle of Higher Education ("The Abuse of Power in Intimate Relationships"), Dziech revives her early arguments. Whether the students in question are undergraduate or graduate, or if the instructors are professors or teaching assistants, she argues, the relationships are ones of power, not mutual attraction. She criticizes colleges for failing to recognize this fact, in essence "ignor[ing] the problem of consent in their sexual-harassment policies," and "not be[ing] courageous or practical enough to ban consensual relationships altogether." Policies on teacher-student relationships that Dziech disapproves of are those like the University's, which falls under the Conflict of Interest Act, rather than the sexual harassment policy. The Conflict of Interest Act states it is "the responsibility of faculty members to avoid engaging in sexual relationships with or making sexual overtures to students over whom they are in a position of authority by virtue of their specific teaching, research or administrative assignments." That language leaves the door open for relationships between a faculty member and a student over which he/she has no direct authority. Many favor this type of policy because it allows professors a certain right to privacy in their personal relationships. But Dziech and other scholars believe schools should prohibit even those, saying "where an imbalance in authority exists, there can be no equality and thus no genuine consent." Though the argument for professors' right to privacy merits attention, there is another issue at hand. Dziech's assumptions about teacher-student relationships hinges on the ever-popular assumption that college students -- especially women -- are not responsible enough to make their own decisions on sexual matters. While she may be correct in assuming that the nature of those relationships are such that the parties involved never will feel completely equal, that is not the school's concern. It is just to make a policy judgment on a relationship between a professor and a student in his or her class based on the possible academic repercussions; to make a moral judgment on the appropriateness of the relationship, however, is not. Just as a young woman knows to think twice before getting involved with her best friend's ex-boyfriend, she knows a relationship with someone of a higher authority will have disadvantages. But it is her choice to make. Again, although arguments against those relationships include both sexes, the concern mainly regards that of male professor/female student relations, similar to the alleged Clinton-Lewinsky relationship. Dziech -- who believes that Clinton's behavior constitutes sexual harassment and calls Lewinsky a "vulnerable subordinate" -- seems to think her proposal will protect college women from the advances of "lecherous professors" like the ones she described in her 1990 book. But recent cases prove that sexual harassment policies do not deter professors from harassing students, but merely allow students to prosecute them for doing so. Thus, her proposal would not necessarily protect women from those advances. It would make women look like weak beings in need of protection from their patriarchal institutions. College women are capable of making decisions about who they have emotional and sexual relationships with. And if they believe the disadvantages of dating a professor outweigh the advantages, they are capable of saying no. The University's policy, as it now stands, needs no revision. It allows freedom for students and faculty to make responsible decisions for themselves while not endangering the trust that all students will be evaluated fairly and solely on their academic merit. And as far as sexual harassment -- which no one should confuse with consensual sex, no matter whom the parties involved -- the University takes a clear stand against harassment. To change the policy in accordance with Dziech's proposal would undermine the judgment of faculty members and students. (C) 1999 Cavalier Daily via U-WIRE