 Charlottesville, Va., and University of Virginia police have been
 coordinating efforts to capture the area's serial rapist for months, and are saying they believe University students are not as aware of the situation as they should be. The series of rapes began in 1997 in a Waynesboro, Va., hotel. There since have been five assaults connected to the one in Waynesboro. Genetics and other forensics have been used to trace the series of rapes back to 1997. Police said there may have been other connected rapes before 1997, but the police are unaware of them. The first rape on Grounds occurred in 1999, followed by another the following year in Lambeth Field. The victim was able to defend herself, though the rapist left genetic material behind. Police stress the fact that the serial rapist does not force his way into homes. Most incidents, however, occurred in the home. The rapist has been reported to use hidden keys or open windows. One of the most dangerous places mentioned by the police is the often-used 15th Street path. "It's a good place to lurk," University Police Chief Paul Norris said. The police briefed new students and their parents on the situation at the beginning of the year. They also put up pictures of the rapist around Grounds. Police said they are dumbfounded by the consistently unsafe practices of students. "You still see young ladies out jogging, et cetera," Charlottesville Police Sgt. Richard Hudson said. "Students must be more aware." There are some details that are not and will not be available to the public. "The suspect is receiving information the same way as everyone else," Charlottesville Police Chief Tim Longo said. Police urge the community to cooperate with the investigations. "We have the right to stop someone if we have probable cause," Hudson said. "We are trying to eliminate people and the only way to do that is with genetic testing." Certain situations make questioning and stopping more likely. "If a person is lurking and looking in windows, then we arrest them," Hudson said. "If we receive a call about suspicious actions, we contact the suspect and obtain genetic material, but if you have a legitimate excuse, everything is fine." Police are aware of the sensitivity caused by a vague description of the rapist. "Students are reluctant to call because they don't want to be racist," Longo said. "They are afraid to call 911." Police reinforced the need for students to aid in the capture of the rapist. "Volunteering information is anonymous, but if you want the reward, you might want to leave your information," University Police Sgt. Melissa Fielding said, referring to the $ 20,000 dollar reward for information leading to the rapist's capture. The police are eager to remove the rapist from the public. "We are going to take him off the streets in a manner that is consistent with the law," Longo said. University and Charlottesville police meet once every week to discuss new efforts and new information that may aid in the confinement of the serial rapist. (C) 2002 Cavalier Daily via U-WIRE