 Of all the things students could concentrate on in the world beyond
 Charlottesville, human rights violations in Burma probably don't top the list often. They're probably not high priority for the Board of Visitors either. But if the University of Virginia is contributing -- even indirectly -- to the Burmese government's inhumane acts, the Board must immediately recognize that this is a problem and fix it. The University has $ 2.5 million invested in companies that do business in Burma, a country ruled by a military dictatorship. Of these funds, $ 2.1 million is invested in Unocol, an oil company that built an enormous pipeline in Burma through the use of forced labor and the relocation of thousands of villagers. This pipeline is a huge source of funding for the dictatorship, so by investing in Unocol, the University helps fund a regime that regularly violates the rights of its people. The University has invested only a small fraction of its money in Burma. It's true that losing a couple million dollars won't make much of a difference to the Burmese regime, but many other universities and businesses also are withdrawing investments in Burma. Largely because of student boycotts, Pepsi stopped conducting business in Burma. Other big names like Reebok and Levi Strauss have withdrawn as well. Students at 25 universities nationwide have called for their schools to stop investing in Burma. As part of this larger movement, the University can have an impact. Student Council passed a resolution last night requesting the Board to withdraw its investments in Unocol if that company doesn't address human rights issues and disclose its ties with the military regime. Only when these steps are taken can Board members have a clear conscience if the University continues to invest in Burma. Otherwise, the Board will have to shoulder some of the blame for human rights violations in that country. The University's best bet is to pull out now. Even if Unocol claims in the future to be addressing human rights issues, it will be difficult to ever trust a business with such an atrocious track record. The University can invest in a tremendous variety of businesses. As a matter of principle, the Board should be ashamed to support corporations that operate in a nation that condones the rape and torture of its citizens. Student Council made clear recommendations to the Board: either show the student body that Unocol doesn't contribute to human rights violations in Burma or get rid of University investments in that corporation. The resolution shows that students care about all the University's actions, not just those that hit close to home or effect everyday life in Charlottesville. It's time for the Board to show that it cares too, about the University's actions in a world context. The Board should never let the University be tied in any way to horrific human rights violations. We encourage the Board to clear the University's name by addressing this matter when it meets next week. (C) 2001 Cavalier Daily via U-WIRE