
 The new year has ushered in a number of new bills from the Virginia General Assembly pertaining to students and other members of the University community. These include a bill addressing the reporting of sexual assault cases, mental health assistance and barring discrimination of the LGBTQ community. The two bills concerning mental health and sexual assault have come in the wake of the nation- and University-wide discussion on the respective topics. The sexual assault bill, introduced in late February, would require University employees to report acts of sexual violence to the Title IX coordinator, who will then determine, alongside a committee, whether to report the incident to law enforcement. The mental health bill also addresses issues of reporting - the legislation mandates that universities notify parents of any mental health issues known about their child and also requires Resident Advisors to make mental health evaluations on students who appear to self-harm. Both bills have received criticism from advocacy groups and the public. Many people have expressed concern the mental health bill may have the unintended consequence of actually increasing suicide. The sexual assault bill, which originally required employees to report the incident immediately, was later altered due to public concern, and now requires an incident to be reported "as soon as practicable." Emily Renda, University Sexual Assault Awareness project coordinator, described the original bill as "paternalistic and patronizing." Gov. Terry McAuliffe has also attempted to pass a bill which seeks to protect LGBTQ employees of the state from discrimination in the workplace. The bill was not passed but Brian Coy, the communications director for the Governor, said the bill would be brought forward again. He explained the bill was a "high priority" for McAuliffe. "He was also the first governor to include transgender in the definition of those protections, and he certainly supports legislative efforts to take that executive order and turn it into law and expand those protections to more Virginians," Coy said. This year, the Virginia legislature also rejected proposals to decriminalize marijuana, increase the minimum wage and grant greater public funds to disabled children. It passed bills allowing public breastfeeding, licensing transportation companies such as Uber and easing college affordability. Looking forward, every member of the General Assembly will be up for reelection this November, likely impacting which bills will be able to move through the legislature this fall.