
 Last week, several events at the University of Virginia were held to raise awareness about both sexual assault and the resources available to address it. A mock sexual assault hearing on Wednesday allowed students to better understand how hearings of the Sexual Assault Board (SAB) are conducted. An informal discussion on Thursday let concerned members of the community come together to address a wide variety of issues relating to sexual assault, from its definition to education and sanctioning. These events, while invaluable in encouraging a dialogue about such a pressing issue on college campuses, are only two steps among the many more needed in the ongoing process of reforming the University's judicial system and encouraging educational efforts regarding sexual assault. A student survivor of sexual assault has several options for adjudication. He or she can pursue criminal or civil charges in the local courts, and University-based routes include an SAB hearing or mediation through the Office of the Dean of Students. Unfortunately, close to 80 percent of incidents of sexual assault go unreported. The reasons why survivors do not report sexual assault are many, but undoubtedly one is the difficulty and perceived lack of justice in prosecuting and punishing the guilty. The Commonwealth Attorneys in Charlottesville and Albemarle County rarely take up cases of sexual assault, and as the absence of any expulsions or suspensions in the past five years for the crime demonstrate, few students receive the harshest penalties through University modes of adjudication. The low percentage of reported cases of sexual assault is a symptom of the frequent lack of convincing evidence beyond "he said/she said" testimony. Such a dearth can discourage reporting and give prosecutors and the SAB very little to go on in pressing charges or issuing punishments. The outrage expressed by attendees of the open forum last week centered on the fact that students found guilty of sexual assault can remain at the University while being given lesser sanctions like counseling or other time and place restrictions. The system in place, though, does allow for change. Amendments in the SAB procedures can institute alterations in the sanctions for those found guilty of sexual assault, and that push can come from the students. A proposed change would then be voted on by the student body in a referendum. Given the apparent consensus that the University does not do enough to punish offenders, the most suitable option for ensuring justice is mandating expulsion for those found guilty of sexual assault beyond a reasonable doubt. The SAB would then have the authority to issue the lesser sanctions for a lower threshold of guilt and, of course, find an accused not guilty. No student convicted of sexual assault with a preponderance of evidence should remain at this school, and all punishments should be proportionate to that amount of evidence. Unfortunately, alcohol further complicates alleged sexual assault. About 95 percent of sexual assaults involve alcohol, but that by no means should discourage survivors from filing charges or make them feel complicit in what happened. Although unlike drunk driving, no bright line like a BAC limit can aid in pressing charges or exacting punishment, this does not mean that students cannot be held responsible for their actions. The scarcity of evidence and the problem of alcohol point to the strongest possibility for powerful initiative -- education. People should know what sexual assault means. They should know what behavior crosses the line. They should know what resources are available to them. Preventative measures that groups like SAFE and One in Four take should be lauded, embraced and expanded by the student body. This work can prevent situations from ever reaching the stage of an SAB hearing. But if they do, it's imperative that students realize sexual assault is unacceptable and that both their peers and judges should be able to enforce it. (C) 2003 Cavalier Daily via U-WIRE