 After news came out that Virginia House of Delegates Speaker S. Vance
 Wilkins Jr., R-Amherst, settled a $ 100,000 out-of-court sexual misconduct complaint, many House Republicans began calling for his resignation. Amherst, Va. resident Jennifer L. Thompson, 26, accepted the settlement last year after claiming that Wilkins made repeated unwelcome advances on her while she was working in the complex where the speaker housed his office. Thompson signed an agreement at the time of the settlement binding her to confidentiality on the settlement's details. Wilkins admitted to paying the settlement but adamantly denied the allegations of sexual misconduct in a closed caucus meeting of 57 Republican delegates Monday night. "The speaker has categorically denied allegations of sexual harassment," said John Hall, an intern in Wilkins' office. According to House Appropriations Committee Chair Vincent F. Callahan Jr., R-Fairfax, many legislators are unwilling to believe Wilkins' denials. There have existed "rumors of his previous past indiscretion around the General Assembly for years," Callahan said. Wilkins also flatly denied a second accusation from 45-year-old Amherst resident Elizabeth P. Massie, who claimed Wilkins made improper sexual advances at a 2001 Christmas Party in Amherst County. Politics Professor Larry J. Sabato said other legislators' reactions to the controversy are mixed. "There are many legislators who are very disappointed in the speaker, but others who support him," Sabato said. Hall claimed Wilkins maintains the support of his friends and staff. "Everyone [in the speaker's office] who has worked with the speaker supports him," Hall said. He added that he has received several dozen phone calls voicing support for the speaker from both delegates and constituents. All 65 House Republican leaders have been invited to attend a June 18 caucus meeting to discuss the next steps that will be taken. According to Sabato, this upcoming week may not only provide an opportunity for Wilkins to lobby, but also to potentially threaten fellow Republicans to stand behind him. "The speaker is a very powerful person," Sabato said. He added that Wilkins could potentially injure a delegate's political future with his influence. A Virginia speaker has never been ousted from office, according to Callahan. He said a range of penalties could be implemented next week, ranging from forced removal to a formal act of censure or even no punishment at all. "That's not going to happen," Callahan said. "Some action will be taken." Callahan speculated that the GOP Caucus would recommend that Wilkins resign from his position. At this point in time, though, Wilkins "seems very unwilling to resign," Sabato said. This means that the other representatives, if they wish Wilkins to resign, will have to convince him that he will otherwise be ousted. For Wilkins to be ousted, a two-thirds vote in a special session would be required. This scenario could harbor political consequences for the party's future, Sabato said. "If they oust him, the Republicans will come back quickly because the focus will be on the new speaker," Sabato said. "If they keep him in office, they will suffer for it." (C) 2002 Cavalier Daily via U-WIRE