
 Charlottesville (Va.) police arrested Christopher Lynn Matthew, 27, Saturday morning and charged him with sexually assaulting a University of Virginia graduate student. Police have not ruled out the possibility that the charges against Matthew are linked to the series of sexual assaults attributed to the Charlottesville serial rapist over the past several years. The incident occurred early Saturday morning in a wooded area near Sunset Avenue, while the victim was walking home from a "social function," Police Chief Timothy Longo said. The assault was not far from where the victim lived, Longo added. Matthew, a Charlottesville native, was taken into custody shortly after a report of the assault was made, said Sgt. David Jones. Matthew was to go before a judge Monday for a bond hearing, Longo said. The Charlottesville Police Department's investigation into the incident is currently underway, and it is unclear whether the assault is related to the numerous sexual assaults that have occurred around the university area in the past years, Longo said. The previous attacks were linked by genetic evidence, and the police are currently exploring that angle, Longo said. "At this point we will simply continue to work through the investigation and wait for the lab results," Longo said. The police will receive evidence from the lab that will analyze the genetic information in five to seven days at the earliest, Longo said. "In the past they have been very cooperative in sharing our sense of urgency," he said. University spokeswoman Carol Wood highly praised the involved students and city police for their quick actions. "We are extremely grateful that the perpetrator was almost immediately apprehended in this instance," Wood said. "The student affected and the students she went to for help should be commended for their quick action." Both Wood and Longo emphasized the importance of students exercising caution at night. "When we were out the evening after [the incident] continuing the investigation, we observed a number of young ladies walking by themselves through an area that could compromise their safety," Longo said. "If you have to be out at night, please bring someone else." Longo also urged students to call 911 if they feel that their safety is in danger. "This is a devastating incident, but we can't say enough that students, particularly women, should never be walking alone at night and should always be aware of their surroundings," Wood said. (C) 2005 Cavalier Daily via U-WIRE