 After almost a week of increased security and heightened student
 awareness, students have mixed reactions following yesterday's announcement by the University Police that the alleged assault in the first-floor bathroom of Cauthen House never occured. Although the police department and the Cauthen resident staff refuse to comment on the details of the incident, any concern about police covering up evidence in the case can be dispelled with the victim's apparent confession. "The alleged victim admitted the incident did not occur," University Police Spokeswoman Kirsten Curtis said. Police continue to protect the identity of the student who filed the false report. "There is a tough line between protection of the victim and raising community awareness," Curtis said. She said police and University Community Service Officers, unarmed security officials who patrol academic buildings, worked side by side to ensure security in the Cauthen House area since Thursday night's alleged assault. She said police stationed at least three officers at the dorm around the clock and manned a sign-in desk for students at the building's entrance. She added that police took the complaint seriously and used every possible measure to protect students while investigating the incident. But University Police Chief Mike Sheffield said "There were some obvious things right away that a trained investigator could see inconsistencies in." These incongruities did not deter their investigation, however. Curtis said the alleged victim could not describe the perpetrator, which hampered their search for the presumed attacker. Although resident staff have asked Cauthen residents not to discuss the incident, some students have formed their own ideas about the assault. "We think the girl had issues with her mentality, but we do not think she had evil intentions. We are more worried about her safety than about blaming her," an anonymous Cauthen resident said. Although several Cauthen residents said they have not received an official explanation for what actually occurred, a second anonymous source said, "The impression we've gotten is that she staged the entire thing." According to sources, the details of the alleged victim's story involve a series of e-mail messages. "The victim apparently sent threatening e-mails to herself and to two other Cauthen residents to make it look like they were being stalked. When [officials] discovered the e-mails were coming from her, she blamed the 'stalker' for tampering with the e-mail system," the second anonymous source said. The Cauthen resident said she feels sorry for "the other two girls who got dragged into it." University Police officials said all suspicions about the invalidity of the assault were confirmed when the alleged victim confessed the incident did not occur. Although police discovered the assault never happened, mass student e-mails about the event have stressed the importance of safety awareness. "I don't think people should put their guards down. Just as it didn't happen, it very well could have," one Cauthen resident said. Even with this alleged incident and last Thursday's sexual assault near the Small Building in the Engineering School, Sgt. Buddy Durham, a University CSO, has not noticed an increase in the use of the Student Escort System, a nightly transportation system intended to protect student safety. Students "have the 'it's not going to happen to me' attitude," Durham said. The prosecution of the alleged Cauthen assault victim for filing a false report will go before the Commonwealth Attorney for consideration, Curtis said. But she said the issue has not yet been discussed. Honor Committee member-elect Rene Theriault said because the case involves lying, somebody could file honor charges against the student. "It could be considered an honor offense," Theriault said. The alleged victim could not be reached for comment. (C) 1999 Cavalier Daily via U-WIRE