 It could happen to you. A mugging, a rape--any act of random
 violence--could catch you unaware and pull you out of your normal life. Intellectually, most of us realize that we are as susceptible to crime and violence as the victims who appear on the front page. Then why do we feel so immune? I, for one, have always been fond of my bubble of invincibility. The logic goes something like this: I have never been assaulted; therefore, I will likely never be assaulted. An even more intelligent assessment of my situation is this: I couldn't imagine what it would be like to be a rape victim, therefore I will never be a rape victim. These arguments are ostentatiously stupid, but they are also soothing. None of us wants to think that she is as vulnerable as the next girl. Moreover, few of us want to allow our dangerous world to bully us into vulnerability. How often do you feel enraged by the fact that it is just not safe for you to walk home from the library at 2 a.m? Is this fair? How dare the threat of violence keep you from the streets! Taking back the night on our own, alone, can seem tempting at times--if walking is more convenient than waiting for the bus. But we all are as vulnerable as the next girl--guys too. Violence, in fact, is a random, chaotic creature. If you haven't been victimized yet, the only reason is sheer luck. Luck and common sense. True, crimes threaten even those who take preventive measures. Muggings do happen in broad daylight. Still, there are ways to reduce the frequency of crime. (As for the other portion, we'll defer to luck--which is the sole protection that many of us depend on now anyway). In order to protect ourselves from the menace of violent crime, we need to do a few things. First, we must admit that we live in a world where crimes like these exist, realizing that the victims are not always the nameless, faceless people in newsprint, but people in our own community--faces we pass on the way to class. We need to believe that we are not exempt; the sooner we accept this, the better for everyone. It shouldn't take one of your close friends getting hurt to shock you into awareness. So we shed our naivete--what next? The question then becomes how to proceed, from this general state of awareness (which is hard to achieve at all). There seem to be two paths: fighting crime at its root, or protecting ourselves from crime where it already exists. The former is active, the latter passive. Eliminating crime is a thorny, complex problem that sociologists, police departments and politicians all struggle with. As individuals, we have to take the passive path by default. How do we avoid crime and violence? I think we have all heard the spiel a million times, so often that the list seems rote, a cliche, an e-mail from the University Police to be read and deleted. Don't run alone at night. Don't walk alone at night. Take the bus, take a cab, drive a car. Stick to the lighted pathways. Then, more proactively--take a self-defense class, clutch your keys like little claws sticking out of your fists. Be alert. If we know it, why don't we do it? I can think of a few reasons. We are wooed by convenience and are very prone to the allure of the "it's not that far" rationale. (Yet anyone can deduct, without much thought, that an assailant only needs a very short pocket of time when his victim is alone in order to attack.) We do not believe that violent crime is really all that common on our safe, self-contained University Grounds. Anyone who reads the newspaper should know otherwise. And, persuasively: We like our contemplative walks alone at night. Who doesn't? I wish my world were one where violence did not exist at all, where I could wander around at all hours, just me and my thoughts. I wish I could be irreverent of the hour and of whether or not there's a lighted pathway to guide me to my destination. My bubble of invincibility was comfortable and womb-like. I even felt rather proud of myself for what I saw as my staunch idealism (read: idiocy) in the face of random violence. But the bubble has been penetrated. A woman was raped beneath Beta Bridge last week. Friends of mine have gotten mugged. Suddenly, the world does not feel so safe anymore--it's time for some reassessment. I do admit that donning a hyper-awareness laced with fear every time you step outside alone at night is not a fun way to live. But it's a way to live. (C) 1999 Cavalier Daily via U-WIRE