
 AS I look back on four years as an undergraduate and as a Cavalier Daily Opinion columnist, I can't help but recall the wise words T.S. Eliot: "We had the experience but missed the meaning, and approach to the meaning restores the experience." Within this quote is a sentiment I strongly sympathize with -- that a higher understanding of life goes beyond the simple highs and lows of our everyday social experiences. I cannot say that I will leave this place without regrets. When I came to the University, I swore up and down that the tragic one-in-four statistic (referring to rapes and sexual assaults) would be ameliorated before I graduated. Unfortunately, my arrogance produced no results. I regret deeply the role of fraternities in this mess, as they intentionally and illegally provide free and unlimited alcohol to minors. Many rapes happen in fraternities, yet the IFC has done nothing in my four years but provide lip service to the cause. Attempts by organizations like SARA to promote respect for women have been met by rude inattentiveness and, ultimately, little or no change. This is sad not only for our school, but the many good individuals that partake in the fraternity system. I also regret that our University is often unable to differentiate between tradition and healthy growth, particularly in regards to the honor system which is dogmatically defended by ideology that barely corresponds with reality. I regret that many if not all of these offenders either use fake IDs to enter bars or have friends that do so, yet remain unwilling to admit that honor is as flexible as any other social concept. In the education provided here, I wish that the emphasis was more on the application of ideas and themes rather than the memorization of soon to be forgotten facts. This lamentation recalls the sagacious words of J.D. Salinger, who through a fictional character wished that "once in a while ... there was at least some polite little perfunctory implication that knowledge should lead to wisdom, and that if it doesn't, it's just a disgusting waste of time." Most importantly, I regret the inaction on my part to address such problems and better the University. My unforgettable experiences at the University are countless. Moving into Bonnycastle. Receiving too many e-mails from my RA, Aaron Kurman. Discovering my favorite musician, Sufjan Stevens. Annoying the hell out of the Democrats e-mail list (sorry, friends). Going to Slaughter with my roommate Tom Ross, who has never missed a workout in his life. Cliche, but always fun activities like throwing a football on the lawn or reading poetry in the amphitheatre. Criticizing the guys that run shirtless but then running shirtless myself. Grilling with the guys. Four a.m. debates with my friend and future law partner John Moran about the First Amendment. Hiking to Blue Hole with my other roommate, Tony Colavito. Directing the class film. Going to the best BBQ in the state of Virginia with my advisor, Charles W. McCurdy. Writing a full-length screenplay. Spilling ice tea on Dean Nicole Hurd's chair at a dinner right before she walked into the room. Stealing my hallmate's bed first year and convincing him that it was burnt down in a tragic smoking accident (Kevin Dunlevy, if you were curious). Laughing at the super competition among girls at the AFC. Protesting the latest of many mistakes by President Bush. All-nighters for stupid classes with my friend from high school and roommate, Matt Thorne. Going to talks at the Comm. School for the free Mellow Mushroom but ending up enjoying the talk anyway. Beating my fifth (and last) roommate, Paul Stucke, in twenty-one, though he won't admit it. Receiving fan (and hate) e-mail for my columns. Writing my last column after four years of column writing. Okay, I might as well mention Kyle Rudzinski, my suave roommate and good friend from second year -- look out for that kid. More important than the experiences, however, were the people that colored them. First and foremost, my loving parents, who despite my most rational objections, always believed in me. I shudder to think what I would have become without their love, their trust and their wisdom. Next, I cannot say enough about the dedication and commitment of the University's faculty. Prof. Brian Balogh in the history department and the Miller Center is someone who every undergraduate would do well to know. His unbelievable faith in me has been the source of much inspiration. Wayne Cozart, who has treated me to countless lunches and conversations, is truly one of the University's greatest assets. Dean Hurd, who I now consider a close friend, was finally recognized by the state of Virginia as our best public servant -- she deserves it, and I feel bad for all of the undergraduates who will not meet her as she moves to UNC next year. Next, I don't know if I could have found a better advisor than I did in Prof. Charles W. McCurdy. It has been an unbelievable pleasure and a privilege to be under his tutelage. Beyond the faculty, I've met some of my best friends here at the University, some of whom I've mentioned, all of whom have put up with my shortcomings while encouraging the best of me. With their help I've managed to grow and develop, not only socially and intellectually, but morally and spiritually. I started my final column with a quotation then discussed my regrets, experiences and relationships at the University. I find it all too fitting that I end with a quotation from the same poet, T.S. Eliot: "We shall not cease from exploring, and at the end of our exploration, we will return to where we started, and know the place for the first time." With respect to my undergraduate career, this is in a sense where I am. Thank you to all the wonderful people that have brought me here. Sina Kian's column used to appear on Wednesdays in The Cavalier Daily. (C) 2007 Cavalier Daily via U-WIRE