
 ON AN imaginary scale of enormity, the pederasty of ex-Rep. Mark Foley, R-Fla., ranks slightly below any conspiracy to conceal it, and even further below the manipulation of the scandal to appropriate American homophobia as a "wedge issue" in the upcoming mid-term election. Moments after the public learned thatFoley exchanged lewd instant messages with adolescent congressional pages, lawmakers promptly proclaimed the following: Foley's behavior was "unacceptable and abhorrent," we didn't know about it, and now that we do know about it, he must be punished for his sinister ways. The first claim appears legitimate, albeit surreptitious, as you'll soon learn. Foley's behavior -- cyber-molesting underage boys -- excites the sort of disgust normally reserved for celebrity creep John Mark Karr and child-raping Catholic priests. But the second and third claims, I think, deserve a bit more attention. To avoid having their majority threatened by one perverted colleague or to halt their plummeting poll numbers, Republican lawmakers ignored Foley's inappropriateness hoping, one assumes, that Foley would reform - at least before the midterm elections. In early October, however, The New York Times reported that "top House Republicans knew for months about e-mail traffic... but kept the matter secret and allowed Mr. Foley to remain head of a Congressional caucus on children's issues." So, as it appears here, the scandal has essentially two main dimensions: Foley's perverse (and potentially felonious) behavior and Congressional leadership's dishonest (and potentially felonious) cover-up. It's tempting, I admit, to leave it at that -- to let inept Republican leadership self-immolate just months before their terms expire in January. Despite the seemingly toxic climate for the GOP, it would be shortsighted to ignore precisely how both Republicans and Democrats manipulated the scandal to their advantage. The Democrats' windfall is so obvious it barely deserves mentioning. Perversion, or the appearance of perversion, sells papers. And Foley's erotic predilections draw unwanted attention to a party inundated with failed, failing or unpopular policies. Democrats in the past seemed pathetically inept in converting Republican blunders into political capital, but given the present circumstances, the scandals seem to speak for themselves. Most readers, I think, would have trouble identifying among the Foley scandal the potential benefits for Republicans. I did, too, until I remembered a key component of Karl Rove's electoral strategy during President Bush's 2004 reelection campaign. Rove, in conjunction with Republican members of Congress, ensured that "gay marriage" found a place on every ballot where evangelical Christians might read it. The right thus confirmed "gay marriage" as the wedge issue du jour, with which they motivated thousands of evangelical voters, who exercised their homophobia -- in Ohio, specifically -- to guarantee Bush a second term. It will be interesting to see whether or not similar groups annex the Foley scandal to portray homosexuals as seething Humbert Humberts, eagerlypreying upon rose-cheeked youth; (Gays can't restrain their pedophilic tendencies, so they shouldn't marry, much less adopt children). It seems implausible, I know, but watch carefully and see if Pat Robertson or Jerry Falwell or Rick Santorum doesn't cite Foley as an example of typical homosexual deviance. One must also consider the possibility that the Foley scandal has renewed the possibility of using strategy again, but by Democrats. John Dickerson wrote recently in Slate how Democrats could easily "use homophobia in a way usually associated with the Republican Party." Dickerson observed that, in order for the Foley scandal to elicit the type of outrage they need, Democrats might have to appeal to those for whom homosexuality is unconditionally evil. The issue here -- and it's depressing I feel the need to point this out -- is of improper conduct between a man and an underage boy -- between a congressman and his subordinate. Foley's homosexuality is, in itself, superfluous. Unfortunately, however his behavior mirrors perfectly the version of homosexuality deployed by Christian fanatics like Santorum and the Falwell/Robertson "you helped [9/11] happen" cadre. As it happens, one needn't look farther than Virginia's upcoming election to observe how similar forms of homophobia divide the electorate. The upcoming referendum concerning the Marshall-Newman Amendment poses a question to voters that, even as I write it, reeks of thinly-veiled bigotry: Should Virginia constitutionalize discrimination against homosexuals? As we consider this issue and, indeed, the Foley scandal, Virginia voters ought to bear in mind the ease with which stereotypes and misconceptions poison well-reasoned debate. Likewise, Democrats must resist the temptation to indulge in homophobia and blatant bigotry for an easy, convenient victory. Mark Foley's behavior was sinister. But sin loves company, and it would be a shame for Democrats to oblige. Dan Keyserling is a Cavalier Daily associate editor. He can be reached at dkeyserling@cavalierdaily.com. (C) 2006 Cavalier Daily via U-WIRE