 For the past two weeks, the topic of sexual assault at the University has
 plagued Student Council's meetings -- discussion that is prompting members to take an active role in ending the silence surrounding the issue. Since the school year's beginning, Council members have said they are aware of alleged sexual assaults occurring at University Hall, Rugby Road, Culbreth Theater, Emmet Street, Wertland Street, Lambeth Field and at other locations within the University's immediate vicinity. Most recently, for example, a female student last month claimed she was confronted by an assailant in a ski mask while walking from her car in the U-Hall parking lot. While the student got away unharmed, Council members are concerned that if further actions are not taken to ensure safety around Grounds, more assaults likely will occur and remain unreported. "A lot of assaults occur at the University that get reported but are never talked about," said Dan Soschin, Council vice president for administration. "I think there should be some way of the University announcing it when assaults occur so students aren't blind to the issues." Soschin said he thinks University officials can do more to prevent incidents of sexual assault. "I think the primary problem is that it seems that the University is not actively doing anything to address the issue," he said. "Education only reaches those who are willing to listen, not the ones who really need to be educated." Other Council members said they agreed they would like to see more effort put forth by University administrators to create an atmosphere where students feel safe. "I think [Council would] like to see a more pro-active stance taken by the administration, not to say they aren't already working on this issue," Council Executive Vice President Howard Foard III said. "But there needs to be more discussion about [the occurrence of sexual assault] at the University." Foard said Council members would like to work more closely with the Dean of Students Office to foster an environment in which students feel comfortable talking about sexual assault. Assoc. Dean of Students Shamim Sisson visited Council's meeting last week to inform members of her efforts in the area of sexual assault. "In 1990, I did a comprehensive assessment of where the University stood as compared to other schools," Sisson said at the meeting. At that time, she said, the University was deficient in its crisis response system and in the coordination of its educational services. Since then, the University has been striving to improve these entities. For instance, the University contributes $ 16,000 a year to S.A.R.A., a resource for sexual assault victims. She was unavailable for further comment yesterday. Soschin, who is the director of the Student Escort Service, said the demand for the Service has tripled since this time last year. "Students now feel so unsafe that they won't walk home from anywhere," he said. "But the University still says no to 24-hour bus service and they say no to more money for Student Escort Service. "This is clearly a case of the University wanting something [to happen] but not taking action," he added. Soschin said the 24-hour bus service would benefit students by decreasing the likelihood of sexual assaults occurring late at night. "All we need is a few buses and a few drivers," he said. "If U.Va. and the administration feel this is a necessary service, they can come up with the money." Women's Center Director Claire Kaplan said she agreed with Council in its concern about the naivety surrounding sexual assault and would like to see more people get involved. She said safety is an issue that concerns all members of the University community: students, faculty and administrators. "Professors could be talking to students about these issues during class, encouraging them to do research on them," Kaplan said. "Greeks could be requiring their members to commit to more than just 15 to 20 minutes of training"about sexual assault. "They should have a minimum of two hours education. This goes for athletes as well," she said. Beyond asking for late-night service, Council members said they think the University needs to place a greater financial commitment on preserving student safety. "I think it's amazing how the University is spending $ 25 million on the stadium, and then [University Transit System] complains there isn't enough money to run a 24-hour bus service," College Rep. Alexandra Minoff said. Council members decided last week to pay $ 350 for a half-page advertisement in today's Cavalier Daily listing some of the areas where alleged sexual assaults recently have occurred. "I think the general populous is drastically uneducated about sexual assault on Grounds," said Joy Hunt, Council's Women's Affairs Committee chairwoman. "I think [this letter] is important because it lists the locations of assaults that students are unaware of. Council members said their main objective in printing the letter is to make students aware sexual assault exists at the University. "When students find out an assault has happened in their neighborhood, it brings the message home," Hunt said. Council President Sajeena Geevarghese said she and Hunt would like to have a bulletin board on Grounds with a map showing the locations of all alleged sexual assaults in the area. "In a way, students live in a plastic bubble," Kaplan said. "Charlottesville is a safe place, and students tend to get too comfortable but college campuses in general are magnets" for sexual assaults. "I think the main problem with rape and sexual assault is that people don't know about it," College Rep. Katie Russell said. "It happens to people all the time and the next [victim] could be them." (C) 1999 Cavalier Daily via U-WIRE