 Yesterday afternoon students on the steps of Old Cabell Hall watched
 first-year College student Eliane Kim don rubber gloves and an oversized blue space suit from the University Recycling Center to fish through a dumpster full of garbage, weeding out potential recylables. Kim, a Students for Environmental Activism member, along with SEA President Julie Jones, got her hands dirty as part of Wake Up Week, an annual week-long effort to promote political and social awareness at the University. "We're incredibly over-consumptive and it's really started to take its toll," Jones said. "It kind of sucks that we have to harp about the same issue every year. But put your trash in the right place, recycle." In addition to SEA, Amnesty International, Mosaic House, First Right, Labor Action Group, the National Organization for Women, the Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual and Transgender Union, Critical Mass and Sexual Assault Facts and Education are participating in events throughout the week. Events slated for the rest of week include workshops, panel discussions and a vigil and march for the Living Wage Campaign-an effort devoted to raising the wages of full-time classified workers who start at minimum wage to a more "livable" wage of $ 8 per hour. "Wake Up Week is a big think tank, a coalition of groups," said Wake Up Week Director Susan Youssef, a fourth-year College student. "Even if the events aren't successful or if the tabling isn't successful, it's about raising morale and awareness." Activist groups have chalked around Grounds, handed out flyers, stickers and buttons in an effort to support their causes at a university where activism is not always at the top of the agenda. "Virginia is called a fairly conservative campus, but I would say students are pretty much apathetic," First Right President Pallas Lee Van Schaick said. Dean of Students Robert T. Canevari compared the energy of student activism in 1998 to that of the 1960s. "You just can't make a comparison," Canevari said. "The activism of yesteryear was much more intense than today." (C) 1999 Cavalier Daily via U-WIRE