
 The Cavalier Daily After seeing the commitment students and faculty gave to the program during Green Dot's January training, the Bookstore decided to help. The University Bookstore donated nearly $3,000 to the bystander intervention program Green Dot last week. Prevention Coordinator Nicole Thomas, who has coordinated the Green Dot program since Aug. 2014, said she reached out to different departments and schools at the University to ask for support and donations. "We had reached out to the Bookstore... to talk about what a potential partnership would look like," Thomas said. After seeing the commitment students and faculty gave to the program during Green Dot's January training, the Bookstore decided to help. University Bookstore Executive Director Jonathan Kates said he proposed the bookstore donate 10 percent of its sales to Green Dot to aid in financial support and to draw attention to the program through joint marketing on Green Dot's University-wide launch March 25. "Knowing that its funding was limited, that its program launch was about to take place and, most of all, that Green Dot is attempting to address the problem of sexual assault, a critical issue here and at other universities, I felt that it was necessary that the Bookstore help out immediately," Kates said in an email. Kates said the Bookstore wants to continue its partnership with Green Dot by sponsoring events and trainings. "This is only the beginning," Kates said. "While plans are still being formed, we know we will sell Green Dot/U.Va. branded merchandise, the profits of which will be donated to this initiative. We may host Green Dot events at the store and we hope to choose another Green Dot day where a percentage of sales can again be donated." Thomas said donations from the Bookstore, along with funding from the Parents' Committee and the Office of the Vice President of Student Affairs, will make Green Dot's sustainability at the University more definite. This summer, the Office of the Vice President of Student Affairs will solidify a concrete budget for Green Dot, which has been funded entirely by the Parents' Committee thus far. Kates said helping to improve student safety is benefit enough for the Bookstore. "One of the Bookstore's goals... is to be involved in student life at the University," Kates said. "As a non-profit department of U.Va., we play an active role in sponsored events and other initiatives. From our perspective, just being given the opportunity to be part of something that promises to improve student life on and off Grounds is benefit enough."