 You see them on your way to class, traveling in pairs or packs, paced a
 few steps behind a large guy. He is obviously an athlete; his thick neck, his Virginia shorts with the Reebok emblem in the corner and the group of giggling girls trailing behind him are all telltale signs of his status. You overhear their shallow, surface chatter with athletes in the dining halls. They talk about classes and homework--subjects that couldn't be further from their minds and motives. They're on the scene at parties, behind the scenes at football games, always awaiting the perfect opportunity to present or accept indecent proposals. We know them as groupies. Far from the spotlights of their rock-star groupie counterparts, collegiate athlete groupies have been carrying on a pathetic, but occasionally profitable, tradition--a symbiotic relationship between competition-driven men and star-struck women who can't get enough. Like algae grow on mushrooms, groupies cling to athletes, nurturing the men's egos while feeding their own hunger for social status. The complex, mutual relationship between groupies and athletes parallels the chicken-and-the-egg philosophy. Which one gives life to the other? As long as athletes continue to be social icons, groupies will flock to them. As long as groupies offer their services, athletes will continue to exploit them. Groupies are a diverse bunch, coming from all racial and socioeconomic backgrounds--the diversity in their motives reflects this. The traditional groupie--who moves through an entire team in hopes of finally becoming a pro player's housewife--still exists. Yet, others now accompany her, including the Social-Climbing Groupie, and the Simply-for-Sex Groupie, who just enjoy having multiple sex partners. Each of these groupie types projects the wide-ranging interpretations of gender roles throughout our society. (Please recognize that many varieties are not mentioned, i.e., the Male Groupie.) The Stereo-Groupie is a warped product of the traditional model of a woman. She wants to be a housewife whose duties include pleasing her man and raising their family. The Social Climber uses her sexuality as a commodity to rise in status among her peers. The Simply-for-Sex Groupie crudely represents the view that women should be equal to men in all ways, including the enjoyment of sexual promiscuity. Each fails. Most Stereo-Groupies will never marry a pro athlete. As the saying goes, no one wants to turn a whore into a housewife. The Social Climbers may get attention from the athletes they serve, but they get no respect. Even the Simply-for-Sex Groupie is a flop; the equality she searches for eludes her. We still label her a groupie--with all its negative connotations--and we treat the athletes she sleeps with a dismissive "boys-will-be-boys" attitude. Groupies are a social menace, fueling fires they cannot extinguish, fires they probably don't know they started. Take the tragic story of our age: Woman makes late night visit to athlete's hotel room, later reports rape. While the men who unjustifiably committed these atrocious crimes are definitely to blame, groupies share some of the responsibility. Perhaps if shameless groupies didn't make "courtesy calls" to athletes' hotel rooms for sex and sex only, these athletes wouldn't expect the same from anyone else. Groupies perpetuate the "conquistador" attitude in athletes, feeding their egos and encouraging their thoughts on conquering any woman--in accordance with or against her wishes (there are also Teaser Groupies, who say no in front of a crowd, but compromise when approached alone). The classic example is NBA player Wilt Chamberlain, who claims he slept with 20,000 women during his professional career. Not all athletes love groupies, however. In the world of professional sports, some athletes have publicized their disdain for groupies and the world of sexual escapades, forming coalitions like Athletes for Abstinence. And while some collegiate athletes hold groupie behavior in an equally unfavorable light, you probably won't see chapters of AFA sprouting up at many universities anytime soon. College athletes have less moral obligations than their lime-lit professional counterparts, who influence millions of fans--particularly children. The absence of these obligations (as well as the carefree and indulgent collegiate atmosphere) leaves the college athlete to ruthlessly explore all the perks available to him. Signs of athletic success may include Heisman trophies and All-American honors, but sneaker contracts and groupie harems are equally important in many eyes. Unfortunately, so long as collegiate athletes aspire to reach pro levels, groupies aspire to go with them--or at the very least enjoy the spotlights brought by potential. While the relationship between groupies and athletes is pathetic, and seems to push feminist movements back into the Stone Age, both parties feed off each other. Therefore, both will survive, until one of the populations either dies out or gets fed up with the endless and unproductive sex cycle. (C) 1999 Cavalier Daily via U-WIRE